[Source URL]: https://academics.iu.edu/degrees/indianapolis/bachelor-of-arts/computer-science.html

Degrees & Majors
Computer Science
Bachelor of Arts
Home
Degrees & Majors
Computer Science
Offered at
IU Indianapolis
by
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Return to search
About
Immerse yourself in the future of computing
By earning a computer science degree, you'll learn how to understand, design, and create next-generation human-centered computing systems&ndash;the kind you'd like to use.
Whether solving problems or designing systems, IU's
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering in Indianapolis
puts human needs and abilities first while putting you in control of your education.
Forget about "one size fits all.
Every student comes to our program with a different level of knowledge. We offer options that allow you to learn at your pace and get up to speed.
Available beginning in fall 2024 from Luddy Indianapolis. Now accepting applications.
Benefits
Online option:
Earn your degree online, on-campus, or a hybrid of the two.
Graduate with experience:
Become workforce-ready through real-world projects and internships.
Degree options
Students can earn a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science. Both degrees qualify students for the same types of jobs.
Bachelor of Arts
The B.A. has a world languages requirement and an additional writing course. It also has an area of specialization that could be any minor or certificate on campus.
Bachelor of Science
The B.S. program includes calculus to prepare for certain advanced courses like deep learning and for the data science M.S. and Ph.D. The B.S. also requires computing-related courses.
What you'll learn
Programming
Data structures
Discrete structures
Computer architecture
Algorithms and theory of computation
Customize your degree by exploring what interests you, including:
Operating systems
Software engineering
Programming languages
Computer networks
Cybersecurity
You can earn 2 degrees in 5 years
Earn a
bachelor's and a master's degree
in five years through the Luddy Indianapolis accelerated degree program. You can earn a bachelor's degree in computer science and pair it with a master's in:
Applied data science
Computer science
Human-computer interaction
Ready for the next step?
Apply now
Request info
Resources
Major guide
Explore the courses, skills, opportunities, and careers related to this major.
Also offered at
IU Bloomington