[Source URL]: https://admissions.indiana.edu/life/diversity/index.html

Home
Life at IU
Belonging
Belonging
You belong here, Hoosier!
At Indiana University Bloomington, you’ll find a welcoming community that will be here to support you from the start of your IU journey through graduation day—and well beyond. That support comes in many forms, including early outreach programs to help you navigate the college search process, financial resources for low-income students, and opportunities to explore the IU campus culture and begin building your personal community right away.
We want to help you get to IU
Your path to college can feel a little overwhelming at times, and the Office of Admissions is ready to help you navigate it with confidence. Explore our early outreach programs, known as Navigate IU. These programs provide information, guidance, and support for students interested in IU starting in 8th grade, so you can connect with resources early in your journey.
Reach IU
– 8th through 10th graders can get help starting their college search.
IU precollege programs
– try college on for size. Students in middle and high school can participate in on-campus and virtual classes and camps and learn more about how college differs from high school.
Ready IU
– an online program to help 9th–11th graders prepare for college and determine how colleges/universities can help them reach their career goals.
Explore IU
– an on-campus event for 10th–12th grade students; they can learn more about opportunities and resources at IU while embracing who they are.
IU Precollege Academy
– rising seniors spend a week on campus to prepare for the college application process, learn how college majors align with future career goals, and get a taste of student life and cultural resources.
Explore outreach programs
Get involved on campus
With 750+ student organizations, you’ll have endless opportunities to explore your interests, find new ones, and connect with your fellow Hoosiers.
Dive in to student involvement
Find your personal community
IU is home to seven cultural centers and institutes offering programming, events, and support. Find your home away from home or discover educational resources to help you learn more about and celebrate our campus community.
Explore culture centers
Learning communities
Live with students who share your interests in a living learning center or thematic community.
Discover learning communities
50
states represented in our student body (and all 50 U.S. states)
110
countries represented in our student body
84%
of beginning students with financial need received gift aid in Fall 2023
"What I love most about IU is the warm and welcoming community. No matter who you are or where you're from, at IU there are people who lift you up!"
Treasure E.
Music education major
Discover what IU can offer you
At IU, you’ll find the resources and support you need to succeed both inside and outside of the classroom.
Get to know Student Central
Take care of the business of being a student with Student Central. Learn about applying for financial aid, managing college costs, registering for classes, and more.
Visit the Student Central website
Scholarships for first-generation and low-income students
IU offers scholarships and scholarship programs to support first-generation students and students from low-income backgrounds. You’ll find a few of these programs below.
21st Century Scholarship Covenant
: This IU award covers food, housing, and books for students who receive the state of Indiana’s 21st Century Scholarship. It also includes mentoring, academic and professional guidance, and networking opportunities.
Groups Scholars Program
: If you’re the first person in your family to attend college, you have limited finances, and you’re recommended for the program, you may qualify for academic advising, financial aid counseling, and tutoring.
Be sure to visit the
scholarships page
and the
Office of Scholarships website
for more information about scholarships.
Develop your leadership skills
Discover opportunities to expand your education outside the classroom, develop your leadership skills, and get hands-on experience that will help you get a head start on your career.
Center of Excellence for Women in Technology (CEWiT)
: Join a community of like-minded women and learn about scholarship and internship opportunities.
Office of Mentoring Services and Leadership Development
: Participate in peer mentoring and related programs.
Civic Leadership Development:
Create change in Bloomington through volunteering and philanthropic initiatives.
Student Involvement
Traditions
Belonging
Programs
Arts
Athletics
Housing
Bloomington
Safety