[Source URL]: https://admissions.indiana.edu/test-optional/index.html

Home
Test Optional
Test Optional
About test-optional admissions
IU Bloomington has a test-optional admissions policy, which allows students to choose at the point of application whether to have SAT and/or ACT test scores considered as part of their application review. Please see below for additional information and FAQs.
1. Why does IU Bloomington make standardized test scores optional?
The goal of test-optional admissions is to provide students who do not feel that their standardized test scores accurately reflect their academic potential the opportunity to choose to not have those test scores considered as part of the admissions review.
Research indicates that for many students, high school GPA paired with test scores provides the best prediction of academic success at Indiana University. However, for some students, a standardized test score may not be as predictive of their success or tell the full story of their potential.
SAT and/or ACT scores are not required for transfer students. However, transfer applicants may submit test scores if they would like to have them considered as a part of their admissions review.
2. How will IU Bloomington evaluate students who do not choose to have their test scores considered as part of their application?
You will be given full admission consideration in the absence of test scores. We will continue to look at all factors of your application, with the greatest emphasis placed on your grades earned in academic coursework; as well as performance in honors, dual-credit, International Baccalaureate, and Advanced Placement courses; your essay; extracurricular activities; and other achievements.
3. What is the deadline to apply as a test-optional student?
If you are a freshman applicant
, you can decide whether to have your test scores considered as part of your admission review. See the timeline for admission below and learn more on our
deadlines
page.
Freshman applicant timeline for admission
Submit a complete application by:
Receive a response no later than:
November 1
January 15
February 1
March 15
After February 1
Applications received after February 1 will be reviewed on a space-available, case-by-case basis
If you are a transfer applicant
, SAT and/or ACT scores are not required. However, transfer applicants may submit test scores if they would like to have them considered as a part of their admissions review. See the timeline for admission below and learn more on our
deadlines
page.
Transfer applicant timeline for admission
Submit a complete application for:
Receive a response:
Fall semester by June 1, spring semester by November 1, or summer session by March 1
4–8 weeks after submission
4. How do I choose whether or not to have my scores considered as part of my admissions review?
We evaluate each application holistically and individually and do not have a formula for whether or not you should choose to have your test scores considered.
The information provided on the
Class Profile page
provides a summary of the high school records and test scores of students admitted for the fall 2024 cohort. This can help you decide whether or not to apply test-optional by gauging where your test score and GPA may fall. Note that the ranges provided represent the
middle 50 percent of admitted students
, meaning that 25 percent of admitted students had scores below this range and 25 percent of admitted students had scores above this range.
For all applicants, the greatest emphasis will be placed on their performance in academic coursework, along with the other factors referenced in Question 2 above.
5. Can I change my test-optional selection after I apply?
Yes, you can change your test-optional selection after you apply. To do so, please log into your IU Portal and navigate to the resources section to update your test-optional selection.
Log into your IU Portal
Please note: We offer applicants the opportunity to update or change their test-optional selection. However, you should only update your test-optional selection if you have already submitted your application and need to
change your selection
regarding whether or not you want to have your test scores considered as a part of your admission review. If you don't want to change the selection you made on your application, do not update your test-optional selection in your IU Portal. If you update your selection to have your test scores considered and have not submitted test scores, you will also need to self-report or send your official scores.
6. If I choose to have my test scores considered as part of my admissions review, how do I report my scores to IU?
If you are offered admission and have self-reported test scores in your application, you must have your official test scores sent from the testing agencies before you can enroll at IU. Your offer of admission and any awarded scholarships that referenced your self-reported scores are contingent on us receiving your official test scores. Additionally, the scores we receive from the official testing agencies must match or be higher than the scores you self-reported during the application process.
Please note:
Self-reporting your scores will
not change your selection
regarding whether or not you want to have your test scores considered as a part of your admission review. If you originally applied without test scores and would now like to have them considered, you will need to change your preference using the instructions under "
Change your test-optional selection
."
Self-report your scores
7. Are there any students who must include test scores as part of their application?
Currently, all undergraduate students applying for the 2024–2025 academic year are eligible to apply test-optional.
For future terms, some students may be required to provide SAT and/or ACT scores. Homeschooled students, students who have attended a school with non-traditional evaluation methods where traditional alpha or numerical grades are not assigned, and student-athletes subject to NCAA eligibility standards may be required to submit a standardized test score.
International students also have separate requirements for English language proficiency. Visit the
Office of International Services website
to learn more.
8. How do I let IU know that I am applying without test scores?
When you complete your application for admission, you will have the opportunity to select whether or not your test scores will be considered as a part of your admission review.
Please note: We oﬀer applicants the opportunity to change their test-optional selection
after they apply
. If you have submitted your application and would like to change your test-optional selection, log into your IU Portal and navigate to the resources section to update your selection. If you don't want to change the selection you made on your application,
do not make this change in your IU Portal
. If you update your selection to have your test scores considered, you will also need to
self-report or send your oﬃcial scores
.
Log into your IU Portal
9. What if my scores have already been sent from a testing agency or included on my transcripts?
If you indicate on your application that you do not want your test scores considered on your application, your test scores will not be included as part of your admission review even if we receive scores from a testing agency or on your high school transcript.
10. If I apply without test scores, can I still be considered for merit-based scholarships?
Yes. IU Bloomington is committed to making scholarship opportunities available to students who qualify, whether they apply with or without test scores. Visit our
Scholarships Test-Optional FAQ
to learn more about the scholarship processes for students who choose not to have their test scores considered.
11. Will I be eligible to be considered for direct admission to my preferred school/College if I apply test-optional?
Yes. Each academic school/college offering direct admission for new students will consider test-optional students.
Since each school/college has different direct admission requirements, we encourage you to review the
Admission Paths page
to explore how direct admission and advising are structured at IU Bloomington.
12. Who can I talk to about this process?
We invite you to reach out to your personal
admission counselor
, to contact the Office of Admissions at
812-855-0661
or
iub.admissions@iu.edu
with any questions regarding the application process.