[Source URL]: https://admissions.indiana.edu/apply/freshman/index.html

Home
How to Apply
Freshman Applicants
Freshman Applicants
The application process for future freshmen
We’re excited that you’re interested in attending IU Bloomington and are here to help you throughout the application and admissions process.
Use the following step-by-step instructions to learn what you need to do
before you start your application
,
when you are ready to apply
, and
after you have submitted your application
.
International applicants should visit the
Office of International Services
for information about applying.
Download our booklet
Check out the
IU Admissions Viewbook
and learn more about our majors, inspiring academic opportunities, and the IU family.
Ready to become a Hoosier?
There are two application options to choose from, but you should submit only one application for admission to IU Bloomington.
Start your Apply IU Application
Use the Apply IU Application to apply to IU Bloomington—and apply to more than one Indiana University campus.
Start your Common Application
Use the Common Application to apply to any of over 900 schools.
Watch our video to see how to apply
To make things as easy as possible, we’ve broken the application process into step-by-step instructions. Watch our video to learn the steps to apply to IU.
Before you apply
Before you begin the application process, learn what you need to do to get ready to apply.
Know our deadlines
The Indiana University Bloomington early action (non-binding) deadline is November 1. This is also the deadline for highest admission and scholarship consideration. Your complete application for admission, including official transcript, essay, and SAT and/or ACT test scores (
if applicable
*) must be submitted electronically by November 1 or postmarked on or before November 1 to be considered for the early action (non-binding) deadline. The regular decision deadline is February 1.
See all deadlines
*IU is test-optional. To learn more, please visit
go.iu.edu/test-optional
.
Review admission standards
Admission to IU is selective, and we consider factors that emphasize academic performance and preparation, such as the level and rigor of your coursework, the individual grades and cumulative GPA you have earned through these courses, your SAT and/or ACT scores (
if applicable
), and the additional insights offered through your application essay.
Review the information in this section to understand IU’s admission standards. You can also view the class profile to see stats on our most recent freshman class.
View the class profile
High school graduation
You must earn a diploma from an accredited high school (or must have completed the Indiana High School Equivalency Diploma) to be eligible for admission consideration. Students who are homeschooled or attend an alternative school should submit credentials that demonstrate equivalent levels of achievement and ability.
Additional information for homeschooled students
For Indiana students, pre-admission will be offered to those students earning the Enrollment Honors Plus Seal diploma.
Learn more about pre-admission for Indiana students
Academic preparation
Applicants should complete at least 34 credits of college-preparatory courses, including:
8 credits (semesters) of English
, such as literature, grammar, or composition
7 credits (semesters) of mathematics
, including 4 credits of algebra and 2 credits of geometry (or an equivalent 6 credits of integrated algebra and geometry), and 1 credit of precalculus, trigonometry, statistics, finite, or calculus or an alternative course demonstrating advanced math preparation.
*NOTE: Discrete mathematics and quantitative reasoning are not approved alternative courses and will not meet the math requirements outlined above.
6 credits (semesters) of social sciences
, including 2 credits of U.S. history; 2 credits of world history/civilization/geography; and 2 additional credits in government, economics, sociology, history, or similar topics
6 credits (semesters) of sciences
, including at least 4 credits of laboratory sciences: biology, chemistry, or physics
4 credits (semesters) of world languages
3 or more credits (semesters) of additional college-preparatory courses
; additional mathematics credits are recommended for students intending to pursue a science degree and additional world language credits are recommended for all students
If your high school does not offer the courses needed to meet one or more of the course requirements noted above, alternative college-preparatory courses may be substituted for those that are not available. Contact your
IU admission counselor
to discuss course substitutions.
When available and appropriate, we encourage students to enroll in a challenging curriculum that includes dual credit,
Advanced Placement (AP)
,
International Baccalaureate (IB)
, and/or Advance College Project (ACP) courses.
Grades in academic classes
Your cumulative GPA, as well as the grades you have earned in the 34 courses required for admission, will be an important part of the application review process. If your school computes a weighted GPA and includes this GPA on your transcript, we will consider it as part of our review for both the admission and scholarship processes.
If your school does not report a 6-semester cumulative GPA on your transcript, we will not consider a high school transcript GPA as part of your application review.
If you have transferred high schools, please consult with your current high school to understand if a cumulative GPA is calculated including your previous work. Per the information above, if a 6-semester cumulative GPA is not included on your transcript, we will not consider a high school transcript GPA as part of your application review.
Standardized test scores
IU's
test-optional admissions policy
allows you to choose whether to have your SAT and/or ACT test scores considered as part of your application review—letting you decide how best to tell your academic story. Research indicates that for most students, high school GPA paired with test scores provides the best prediction of academic success at Indiana University. However, for some students a standardized test score may not show all that they are capable of or tell the full story of their potential.
While you will decide whether your scores will be considered, resources and guidance are available through our office or your personal
admission counselor
.
We superscore, which means that if you choose to have test scores considered as part of your application review, we'll consider your best test scores. For the SAT, we’ll consider the highest Math and Evidence-Based Reading and Writing. For the ACT, we’ll combine the highest scores for each subtest from different exams for a new ACT Composite.
Other decision-making factors
As part of our holistic review process, we may consider supplemental information—when provided—such as leadership experience, extracurricular activities, community service, work experience, and counselor or teacher recommendations. Please note, however, that letters of recommendation are not required. If you do choose to submit them, we will accept one counselor recommendation and one teacher recommendation.
Self-reported race or ethnicity information will not be made available to individuals responsible for reviewing admission applications and/or making admission decisions.
Research majors
Before you apply, make sure you spend some time exploring our different
schools
and
200+ majors
.
When you fill out your application, you’ll be asked to choose an intended major.
If you don’t know what you want to major in, that’s okay! IU students who have not yet chosen a major are considered exploratory students. Indiana University promotes academic exploration and encourages students to spend time discovering the path that’s right for them. Exploratory students are supported by
Advising & Major Exploration Services
, where they receive expert advising to help them find their ideal major and fulfill the general requirements needed to certify into a degree-granting school or college.
Learn more about being an exploratory student
Learn about direct admission and entering your school
There are a few ways you could start your academic journey at IU, including direct admission. Direct admission at IU refers to admission to specific academic programs and degree-granting schools. Learn more about
direct admission and other ways to start at IU.
No matter which path you take when you start at IU, you will have academic and career advising at every step of your journey to help you reach your goals.
Learn about scholarships
Merit scholarships
IU academic scholarships
are awarded based on the academic information you provide through your application for admission. The assessment of a student’s academic performance is based on a number of factors, including high school GPA, grades received in coursework required by the Office of Admissions, and rigor and performance in advanced courses (AP, IB, Honors, etc.).
For highest scholarship consideration, you must submit a complete application for admission, including official transcript, IU-specific essay, and self-reported or official test scores (
if applicable
) by
November 1
.
Learn more about this scholarship deadline
Additional scholarships
You can also look for additional scholarship opportunities within your community and at your high school.
Get more information about scholarships
Review AP, IB, and other credit guides
IU awards AP and college credit that can help you get a head start on your degree program.
Read more about advanced placement, credit, and exemptions
Calculate any transfer credits
If you took a college class while you were in high school, you might be able to transfer that credit to IU Bloomington.
To be considered for credit at IU, the course you took in high school must be from a regionally accredited institution and must correspond to a course in our curriculum—in content and credit value. You must earn a grade of C or better in the course.
If you are admitted to IU, we will evaluate your transcript(s) and supply you with a detailed Credit Transfer Report showing how previous college coursework will transfer. You can access your Credit Transfer Report via
One.IU
. Please be aware that it may take four to six weeks to process and evaluate the transcript once it arrives in our office.
Learn more about our Credit Transfer Service
Find Jacobs School of Music requirements
If you’re interested in the Jacobs School of Music, you may apply using Apply IU or the Common Application. After submitting one of these applications, you must also complete the Jacobs School of Music supplemental application and submit an additional fee.
Please Note:
The deadline to submit the Jacobs School of Music supplemental application is December 1.
Learn more about Jacobs School of Music requirements
When you apply
Find out what to do right before—and right after—you apply.
Submit your complete application
Even though there are two options to choose from, you should submit only one application for admission to IU Bloomington.
Apply IU Application
Common Application
You will need to submit the following materials to apply for admission:
The application.
Freshman applicants may apply using
one
of the application platforms listed below.
Apply IU Application
Common Application
A brief essay.
As part of your application, regardless of which platform you choose, you will need to submit an essay. If you are applying through the Common Application, you will need to submit one of the essay prompts. If you are applying through Apply IU, you will need to submit the IU-specific essay.
IU-specific essay
: In 200–400 words, you’ll be asked to describe your academic and career plans and any special interest (for example, undergraduate research, academic interests, leadership opportunities, etc.) that you are eager to pursue as an undergraduate at Indiana University. If you encountered any unusual circumstances, challenges, or obstacles in pursuit of your education, you may share those experiences and how you overcame them. Please note that this essay may be used for scholarship consideration. Find more information about completing your essay on our
FAQ page
.
The $65 application fee.
The application fee is non-refundable. If you experience any payment issues, please contact us at
admsbus@iu.edu
or
812-855-0661
.
Your high school transcript and full senior year schedule (not just fall courses),
which must come directly from your high school or may be uploaded and submitted as part of your application.
SAT and/or ACT scores (
if applicable
).
Admission to IU is
test-optional
. If you took the ACT and/or SAT and would like to have your scores considered, you may share either official or self-reported scores during the application process. If you are offered admission and have self-reported test scores in your application, you must have your official test scores sent from the testing agencies before you can enroll at IU. Your offer of admission and any awarded scholarships that referenced your self-reported scores are contingent on us receiving your official test scores before enrollment. Additionally, the scores we receive from the official testing agencies must match or be higher than the scores you self-reported during the application process.
Make sure you allow pop-ups and enable third-party cookies to ensure that your application and fee payment will be submitted correctly. If you experience any payment issues, please contact us at
admsbus@iu.edu
or
812-855-0661
.
Make sure you read the information on this page and our
FAQ page
before you get started.
Pay the application fee or request a waiver
When you submit your application, you must pay a $65 nonrefundable application fee.
We accept multiple different fee waiver forms. Please see the different options below. The application fee, or fee waiver request, must be submitted when completing your application.
If you are submitting the
Apply IU Application
, you will need to submit a completed
ACT
,
SAT
, or
NACAC
fee waiver form that has been verified by your high school counselor.
If you are submitting the
Common Application
, you will need to complete the fee waiver section on your profile and your counselor will need to verify your eligibility.
We will not process your application or make an admission decision until we receive a completed fee waiver or the non-refundable $65 application fee.
If you are a 21st Century Scholar or a Balfour Scholar, the application fee will be waived if you indicate you participate in one of these programs when you complete your application.
Send your test scores (if applicable)
IU's
test-optional admissions policy
allows you to choose whether to have your SAT and/or ACT test scores considered as part of your application review.
If you choose to have your test scores considered, you may share either official or self-reported scores. If you choose to self-report your scores, you can do so on your application. You may also
self-report additional scores
after submitting your application. If you are offered admission and have self-reported test scores in your application, you must have your official test scores sent from the testing agencies before you can enroll at IU. Your offer of admission and any awarded scholarships that referenced your self-reported scores are contingent on us receiving your official test scores before enrollment. Additionally, the scores we receive from the official testing agencies must match or be higher than the scores you self-reported during the application process.
When you have the testing agencies send your official scores, use the codes listed below for Indiana University Bloomington.
Our SAT code is 1324.
Our ACT code is 1210.
Request to have your high school transcript sent
To complete your application for admission, we require an official high school transcript and a full senior year schedule (not just fall courses). The transcript and full senior year schedule may be sent directly from your high school, or uploaded by your counselor as part of your application if you are applying with the Common Application. If your school sends transcripts electronically and the transcript vendor requires an email address for delivery, please use
iublrecv@iu.edu
. You can also have your transcript mailed to the following address:
Office of Admissions
Indiana University Bloomington
940 E. Seventh Street
Bloomington, IN 47405
Your offer of admission is contingent upon the successful completion of the academic coursework outlined in your transcript and/or admission application. We expect you to maintain your high level of academic performance. Please note that if you are admitted and choose IU, we will require a copy of your high school transcript with final grades and graduation date as soon as it is available.
Transcripts for college courses taken in high school
If you are enrolled in any college courses in high school, you’ll need to send those transcripts as well. You may be able to earn college credit to IU Bloomington. College transcripts may be mailed to the address above or sent electronically to
iublrecv@iu.edu
.
Learn more about transferring credits
If you applied by the November 1 early action (non-binding) deadline, you can expect a response by
January 15
. If you applied by the February 1 regular decision deadline, you will receive a response by
March 15
.
After you apply
Once you apply, you will be invited to your IU Portal where you can check your application status. Read below for instructions and to learn more about what you can do after you apply.
Check your application status and any needed materials
To check the status of your application, log in to your
IU Portal
. Once you have started your application, login information for your IU Portal will be sent by email within 2 to 3 business days. Please note: emails with login information will begin in mid-August.
In the IU Portal, you'll see a Checklist of any items our office still needs to receive. Please be aware that after your items are received, it may take up to four weeks for them to be updated in your Checklist. Please be patient and check back frequently.
To check the status of your application and your Checklist
Go to your
IU Portal
.
Log in using the username and password you created.
If you have any outstanding items listed on your Checklist, your application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed. Please upload your items in the IU Portal or
contact us
if you have questions.
Create your IU computing account
Your university ID number will be listed in your IU Portal. Use your university ID number to create your IU computing account, which you will use for other important tasks during your admission process, including direct admission review requests.
Please note: The computing account is different than your IU Portal account and the account you created to apply.
Steps to create your IU computing account:
Navigate to
access.iu.edu/starterkit
.
Enter your last name, birthdate, and University ID.
Follow the instructions.
It may take up to 24 hours before you can log in to some services.
What to do if you have forgotten your ID or other information:
Forgot your 10-digit university ID number? If you are an ACP student, use the
Information Recovery Form
. All other students should first try the
Student Self-Service University Lookup Form
. If you still need assistance, please email the Office of Admissions at
iub.admissions@iu.edu
. (In order to help you, we will request additional information.)
Forgot your username? Contact the
UITS Support Center
.
Forgot your passphrase?
Reset it here
.
Please note that if you have previously been enrolled in or participated in a program at any IU campus and were given a 10-digit university ID number and username, you will use the same university ID number and username to access (or set up) your IU computing account.
Self-report your scores
If you chose at the point of application to have your SAT and/or ACT test scores considered as part of your application review, you can self-report your scores by completing the form below.
PLEASE NOTE:
Self-reporting your scores will
not change your selection
regarding whether or not you want to have your test scores considered as a part of your application review. If you would like to update your test-optional selection, please review the instructions under "Change your test-optional selection."
Self-report your scores
Change your test-optional selection
If you want to update your selection of whether or not to have test scores included in your application review, please complete the form below.
PLEASE NOTE: Only complete this form if you have
already submitted your application
and need to
change your test-optional selection
. If you don't want to change the test-optional selection you made on your application,
do not complete this form
. If you opt to have your test scores considered and have not yet submitted test scores, you will also need to
self-report or send your official scores
.
Change your test-optional selection
Make other changes to your application
To learn how to make changes to your application, visit the
Make a Change to Your Application page
. Please note that if you change your intended major, your application for admission will be reviewed again, even if you already received a decision.
Contact us with any questions
Cancel your application
If you’d like to cancel your application after you’ve applied, send a message using our contact form. Select "Application" as the topic, then choose "Cancellation" in the drop down menu and put your cancellation request in the comment box.
Cancel your application
Just for Hoosier Link students
Hoosier Link is a guaranteed transfer admission program in cooperative partnership between Indiana University Bloomington and Ivy Tech Community College Bloomington.
The program allows a select group of Indiana residents who are high school graduates (and who have never attended a college institution full time) the opportunity to gain transfer admission to IU Bloomington upon reaching specific academic benchmarks.
Learn more about the Hoosier Link program
Admitted students
If you’re admitted to IU Bloomington, you’ll need to reserve your space by indicating your intent to enroll by May 1.
Reserve your space
Campus safety and security reports
Indiana University’s
annual security reports
, which contain policy statements as well as crime and fire statistics for Indiana University campuses, are available online. You may also request a physical copy by emailing IU Public Safety at
iups@iu.edu
.
Freshman Applicants
Transfer Applicants
Intercampus Transfer Applicants
Adult Applicants
Military & Veteran Applicants
Second Degree and Visiting Applicants
International Applicants
Graduate Applicants
Admission Paths
Application FAQs
Viewbook