[Source URL]: https://admissions.indiana.edu/apply/intercampus-transfer/index.html

Home
How to Apply
Intercampus Transfer Applicants
Intercampus Transfer Applicants
A step-by-step application process for intercampus transfer students
If you’re currently taking classes at one of our
nine IU campuses
, we invite you to apply to IU Bloomington! Every year, hundreds of students transfer their enrollment from another IU campus to IU Bloomington and we are excited to support you on continuing your IU journey.
If you are only looking to complete a summer class or semester of coursework in Bloomington and plan to retain your enrollment on your home campus, learn about enrolling as a
visiting student
.
Before you apply for intercampus transfer to IU Bloomington
If you have completed less than 12 hours of IU academic credit
A holistic review of your high school and college work will be made to determine eligibility for admission.
Generally, a transfer student who earned a 3.0 cumulative high school grade point average and met the
high school curriculum requirements
(admission standards) set by faculty could be considered for transfer admission after only one semester of college level work after high school.
If you have completed at least 12 hours of IU academic credit
In order for this section to apply, you must have 12 hours of IU academic credit completed by the time of application.
A cumulative IU GPA of 2.5 is required for admission.
However,
if you have completed at least 26 hours of IU academic credit
, you may be admitted with a cumulative IU GPA of 2.3.
You must maintain a cumulative IU GPA of at least 2.3 until you begin classes at IU Bloomington, or your admission may be revoked.
IU academic credit
for intercampus transfer applications
must be completed at an IU campus by the time of application
, and
excludes
courses that do not count toward an IU Bloomington degree, such as English or math classes considered pre-college level. Other specific exclusions are physical education electives and learning-skills courses such as freshman seminars.
If you attended another college or university after attending Indiana University, your coursework at the other school will also be included in your application review.
Know our deadlines
Find out when to apply, when you’ll be notified of acceptance, when you need to pay your enrollment deposit, and more. Please note that the deposit is nonrefundable and will be credited toward your first-semester tuition expenses.
See the deadlines
Research majors
Before you apply, make sure you spend some time exploring our different
schools
and
200+ majors
.
When you fill out your application, you’ll be asked to choose an intended major.
If you don’t know what you want to major in, that’s okay! IU students who have not yet chosen a major are considered exploratory students. Indiana University promotes academic exploration and encourages students to spend time discovering the path that’s right for them. Exploratory students are supported by
Advising & Major Exploration Services
, where they receive expert advising to help them find their ideal major and fulfill the general requirements needed to certify into a degree-granting school or college.
Learn more about being an exploratory student
Review information about college costs
Your IU education is an investment in your future—and IU Bloomington offers resources and support to help you get the best return on your investment. Review the
Cost & Financial Aid page
to get a sense of the cost and value of your IU degree. Then, visit the Office of Scholarships page to explore options to fund your IU degree with
scholarships available to transfer students
.
Learn about direct admission and entering your school
There are a few ways you could start your academic journey at IU, including direct admission. Direct admission at IU refers to admission to specific academic programs and degree-granting schools. Learn more about
direct admission and other ways to start at IU.
Be sure to review the application and admission process for your school of interest as some programs only allow standard admission for transfer applicants or require additional application steps.
No matter which path you take when you start at IU, you will have academic and career advising at every step of your journey to help you reach your goals.
Learn how transferring your credits will work
If you took courses at another IU campus, you will work with your academic advisor to learn how your credits will apply to your IU Bloomington degree. Degree requirements differ between IU campuses. Review the requirements and plan for your degree on the
iGPS site
.
Still have questions about transferring credits? Attend a transfer visit event! You'll learn more about IU and the admissions process—and we'll review your transcripts for credits not listed on the Credit Transfer Service. Check out the in-person and virtual options, then
sign up for a transfer visit
.
Review AP, IB, and other credit guides
IU awards AP and college credit that can help you get a head start on your degree program.
Read more about advanced placement, credit, and exemptions
Ready to become a Hoosier?
Go straight to the Apply IU Application if you're ready to
apply to IU Bloomington
as an intercampus transfer student.
Apply Today
When you apply
Find out what to do when you’re ready to send in your application.
Submit your complete application
Transfer applicants apply using the Apply IU Application.
Start your Apply IU Application
You will need to submit the following materials to apply for admission:
The application.
Transfer applicants apply using the
Apply IU Application
.
Your official college transcript(s)
if you have taken classes at colleges
other than an IU campus
. Your college(s) should send your transcript(s) directly to the IU Office of Admissions at the address listed below.
If you have completed fewer than 12 hours of IU academic credit, you also need to submit the following materials to apply for admission:
Your official high school transcript
, which your high school should send directly to the IU Office of Admissions.
If your school sends transcripts electronically and the transcript vendor requires an email address for delivery, please use
iublrecv@iu.edu
. You can also have your official transcript mailed to the following address:
Office of Admissions
Indiana University Bloomington
940 E. Seventh Street
Bloomington, IN 47405
Note: SAT and/or ACT scores are not required for transfer students.
Make sure you allow pop-ups and enable third-party cookies to ensure that your application will be submitted correctly.
Make sure you read through the information on this page and our
FAQ page
before you get started.
After you apply
We’ll let you know if you’ve been accepted four to eight weeks after we receive all your application documents.
Check your application status and checklist
To check the status of your application, log in to your
IU Portal
. (Note: This is the admission application portal, not One.IU.) Once you have started your application, login information for your IU Portal will be sent by email within 2 to 3 business days.
In the IU Portal, you'll see a Checklist of any items our office still needs to receive. Please be aware that after your items are received, it may take up to four weeks for them to be updated in your Checklist. Please be patient and check back frequently.
To check the status of your application and your checklist
Go to your IU Portal.
Log in using the username and password you created.
If you have any outstanding items listed on your checklist, your application will be considered incomplete and will not be reviewed. Please upload your items in the IU Portal or
contact us
if you have questions.
Make changes to your application
To learn how to make changes to your application, log in to your
IU Portal
. Please note that if you change your intended major, your application for admission will be reviewed again, even if you already received a decision.
Contact us with any questions
Cancel your application
If you’d like to cancel your application after you’ve applied, log in to your
IU Portal
and complete the cancellation form.
Access your Transfer Credit Report
If you are admitted, you will be able to access your detailed Transfer Credit Report approximately two to three weeks after admission. This report will list all courses taken at other institutions, indicate whether each course will transfer, and note the equivalent course at IU Bloomington for which you'll receive credit.
Please note that your IU credits will not be displayed on your Transfer Credit Report, only those earned at another college or university.
To view your Transfer Credit Report:
Log in to
One.IU
.
Type "transfer credits" into the search box at the top and click on the "Transfer Credits" app box.
Log in using your IU username and passphrase to see how your course work from another college or university transferred to IU.
If you have general questions about transferring credits, please visit the
Credit Transfer Service
site or
contact the Office of Admissions
. If you have questions about a specific course equivalency or how your credits may count towards an IU degree, please contact the
school or college
in which you plan to enroll.
Visit IU
Sign up for a transfer visit to explore the IU Bloomington campus in person or virtually. These programs are tailored to the transfer student experience, including a personalized review of your transfer credits.
Explore transfer visit options
Campus safety and security reports
Indiana University’s
annual security reports
, which contain policy statements as well as crime and fire statistics for Indiana University campuses, are available online. You may also request a physical copy by emailing IU Public Safety at
iups@iu.edu
.
Freshman Applicants
Transfer Applicants
Intercampus Transfer Applicants
Adult Applicants
Military & Veteran Applicants
Second Degree and Visiting Applicants
International Applicants
Graduate Applicants
Admission Paths
Application FAQs
Viewbook