[Source URL]: https://admissions.indiana.edu/apply/index.html

Home
How to Apply
How to Apply
Identify what type of student you are below and then get ready to
bring on tomorrow
and launch your future at IU. If you're not quite ready to apply or just beginning to think about what happens after high school, we can help you start
planning for college
.
Learn how to apply
Freshman applicants
See freshman admission standards, application requirements, and tips on how to submit a strong app.
Transfer applicants
Learn how to transfer from your college to IU Bloomington and find out how your course credits may transfer.
Intercampus transfer applicants
Learn how to transfer to IU Bloomington from one of our nine IU campuses.
Adult applicants
Learn more about continuing your education at IU Bloomington.
Military/veteran applicants
Read more about how to apply and special services and requirements for veterans.
International applicants
Visit the Office of International Services website to learn how to apply from outside the United States.
Graduate applicants
Visit the University Graduate School website to learn more about the admission process for graduate applicants.
Second degree & visiting students
Learn the processes for pursuing a second undergraduate degree, or for taking classes as a visiting, nondegree student.
Application FAQs
Get answers to frequently asked questions about the application process.
Update application
If you need to make a change to your application, use the Update Form.
Admission Paths
At IU, you can be directly admitted into a program, start right away in your school, or follow a standard admission route. You'll receive support from an academic advisor in your
school
or through Advising and Major Exploration Services, depending on your admission path.
Learn about Admission Paths
Check out the Viewbook
Get a glimpse of what Indiana University Bloomington has to offer from academic programs and student life to career preparation and student outcomes. The Viewbook also offers detailed information on the admissions and application process to help you stay on track for your journey to IU.
Visit our viewbook
Campus safety and security reports
Indiana University’s
annual security reports
, which contain policy statements as well as crime and fire statistics for Indiana University campuses, are available online. You may also request a physical copy by emailing IU Public Safety at
iups@iu.edu
.
Freshman Applicants
Transfer Applicants
Intercampus Transfer Applicants
Adult Applicants
Military & Veteran Applicants
Second Degree and Visiting Applicants
International Applicants
Graduate Applicants
Admission Paths
Application FAQs
Viewbook