[Source URL]: https://asianresource.indiana.edu/

You Are All Invited!
March 27-30, 2025
Asianfest and Midwest Asian American Student Union Spring Conference (MAASU):
Opening Events in Celebrating the 2025 Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month.
Please join us for these exciting two opening events, which will explore our shared history and the diverse backgrounds within our communities of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage.
Asianfest
March 27, 2025
The Asian Culture Center and the City of Bloomington are pleased to present a campus-community-inspired celebration of the 2025 Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month through arts, cultural performances, music, food trucks, and a range of educational activities.
*In case of rain, the outdoor portion scheduled from 5 to 7 pm will be held at
the Grand Hall of First United Methodist Church,
219 E 4th St, Bloomington, IN 47408
Learn More
MAASU Spring Conference
March 28-30, 2025
Midwest Asian Pacific Islander Desi-American Student Union (MAASU) 2025 Spring Conference, March 28-30
th
. This year’s theme is "APIDA: Redefining Culture: Episode 1: Season 1, The Training Arc.”  This Spring Conference features Family Group Programming, Arts, Advocacy, and Professional Development Workshops & Networking, and formal gala dinner.  More info here:
https://asianresource.indiana.edu/aapihm/maasu.html
If you have any questions or concerns, please email the conference planning committee at
advocacy@maasu.org
and
samshr@iu.edu
Learn More
We are also elated to have a variety of campus and community partners engaged in our tabling and activity portion of the celebration. We are deeply grateful for their support and encourage you to come say hi to:
Adoptee Awareness Student Organization
Alpha Kappa Delta Phi International Sorority Inc
Asian Pacific American Law Student Association
Bloomington Indiana Japanese Language School
Chinese Flagship
Constellation Stage and Screen
Dhar India Studies
Eskenazi School of Art, Architecture, and Design
First Year & Family Experience Programs
Hoosier Asian American Power
IU Libraries
IU Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology
IU Tae Kwon Do Club
Lotus Education & Arts Foundation
Monroe County Public Library
Myanmar Student Association
National Taiwan University Huayu BEST Program
IU Summer Language Workshop
WFHB
Women in Math
Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month invites us to honor and explore our shared history and the diverse backgrounds within our communities
More About 2025 AAPIHM
Information for DACA Students and Staff
IU maintains a website that has DACA-related information, financial resources, and points of contact.
DACA @IU
Welcome to the Asian Culture Center
Based on the Bloomington campus of Indiana University, the Asian Culture Center (ACC) aims to promote awareness, understanding, and acceptance of Asian American and Pacific Islander cultures, history, and issues as an integral part of the fabric of American life in the United States.
The ACC, a program of the Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, accomplishes this through advocacy, institutional resources, cultural and educational support, and community outreach activities that promote participation and dialogue with students, faculty, staff, and residents of Indiana.
One does not have to be of Asian or Pacific Islander heritage to be involved with the ACC. Everyone is welcome.
20 Questions with the Asian Culture Center