[Source URL]: https://blackculture.indiana.edu/index.html

Where You Belong
Once called “The House,” the Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center (NMBCC) has a long-standing history of supporting the Indiana University’s efforts to challenge, support, and contribute to the continued development and success of the Black students, faculty, and staff.
Learn more about the Neal-Marshall
Information for DACA Students and Staff
IU maintains a website that has DACA-related information, financial resources, and points of contact.
DACA @IU
NMBCC Virtual Tour
Caramel Russell Portrait Unveiling
Can’t make it to campus? The NMBCC team is ready to take you on a virtual tour of the facility. Check out some beautiful artwork, portraits and narratives that tell the story of the Center, study and meeting rooms, administrative offices, event spaces, and much more.
Affectionately known as “Mother Culture”, Mrs. Caramel Russell had a presence and impact that touched so many students, faculty, staff, and community members. On April 17, 2021, the NMBCC hosted a virtual portrait unveiling honoring the legacy of the first Black Culture Center director, Mrs. Russell. Among several special moments of the afternoon, a beautiful portrait of Mrs. Russell was unveiled. In partnership with the IU Neal-Marshall Alumni Association, the portrait was commissioned by renowned, local artist Mr. Joel Washington.
Programming
The NMBCC is a unique space that facilitates programs and services promoting academic excellence, community building, and support for Black students.
Learn about our programs
The NMBCC Story
The NMBCC is dedicated in honor of the first African American man, Marcellus Neal, and woman, Frances Marshall, who graduated from Indiana University.
Discover our history
Visit the NMBCC
We offer individual and group specialized tours.
Rent NMBCC Space
Host your IU event in our historic space.
NMBCC Upcoming Events
Apr
26
IU Soul Revue Spring Concert
Starts at
7:30 p.m.
114 E. Kirkwood Ave. Bloomington, IN 47408
-
May
03
African American Choral Ensemble Spring Concert
Starts at
7:30 p.m.
Ruth N. Halls Theatre
-
May
09
Black Congratulatory Ceremony
12 p.m.
—
2 p.m.
IU Auditorium
-
Jun
20
Camp S.O.U.L. 2025 Finale Concert
Starts at
11 a.m.
View more events
https://www.facebook.com/nealmarshallblackculturecenter