[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/about/leadership.html

Home
About
Leadership & Administration
Leadership & Administration
Leadership on the flagship campus
Our provost
Provost and Executive Vice President Rahul Shrivastav
is the chief academic officer for IU Bloomington. His primary goal is to continually improve every aspect of the education here and to maintain and enhance IU Bloomington’s status as one of the world’s leading research universities.
The
Office of the Provost
oversees the academic programs, research, and policies of the schools on the Bloomington campus. All deans, vice provosts, and leaders of campus administrative units report to the provost.
Get to know our provost
Our vice provosts
Our
vice provosts
oversee specific priorities of the university, such as recruiting a diverse student body and securing top research opportunities for faculty.
Diversity and Inclusion
Attracts and supports students from minority groups, with a focus on undergraduate programs such as the Hudson and Holland Scholars Program, the Groups Program, and the 21st Century Scholars Program.
Learn more about Diversity and Inclusion
Enrollment Management
Recruits and enrolls the most diverse, high-ability students and prepares them for academic success through engagement, service, and cultural activities.
Learn more about Enrollment Management
Faculty and Academic Affairs
Supports faculty careers by enhancing productivity, recognizing excellence, cultivating leadership, and striving for a nurturing campus climate.
Learn more about Faculty and Academic Affairs
Finance, Administration & Budget
Works in partnership with Responsibility Center fiscal leaders across the Bloomington campus to improve knowledge, strategy, and effectiveness across all units.
Learn more about the Office of Finance, Administration & Budget
Graduate Education
Oversees graduate education for all programs except for the professional schools, and oversees the health sciences initiatives for the Bloomington campus.
Learn more about Graduate Education
Research
Offers consultation, proposal development, competitive internal funding programs, and infrastructure for a wide range of research, scholarly, and creative activities.
Learn more about Research
Student Life
Supports student success through a wide variety of services, including academic, legal, health and wellness, and personal safety.
Learn more about Student Life
Undergraduate Education
Leads campuswide programs and initiatives for undergraduates, pre-college students, and adults who are continuing their education.
Learn more about Undergraduate Education
University-wide leadership
President Pam Whitten
works with students, faculty, and staff to build on IU’s reputation as a top research university, advancing the evolving needs of our state and world. The
Office of the President
oversees IU’s seven campuses and two regional centers, which include more than 25,000 faculty and staff and more than 90,000 students.
Get to know our president
Vice presidents help the university achieve these goals in target areas such as diversity, engagement, and academic affairs. They also help manage the university’s immense research and educational resources.
Get to know other IU leaders
History
Rankings & Campus Statistics
Mission & Strategic Planning
Leadership & Administration
Safety & Emergency Information
Visit Campus
Transportation & Parking
Jobs at IU
How to Hire IU Students