[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/academics/opportunities.html

Home
Academics
Academic Opportunities
Academic Opportunities
Enrich your education and get career-shaping experience
Hoosiers are doers. We not only come up with big ideas, we also put them into action, see them to fruition, and learn from the entire experience to shape our
futures and careers
.
This hands-on, practice-that-leads-to-proficiency approach begins your first year. IU Bloomington’s many academic opportunities range from small (taking a course in another field that interests you) to large (designing your own research study), and each
program
and
school
has its own opportunities.
Meet Ilinca
Majoring in biology and neuroscience with plans to become a physician. Gets hands-on research experience working with rats in mazes in the College of Arts + Sciences Newman Memory Lab. Immigrated from Romania as a child. Trains service dogs with the Indiana Canine Assistant Network (ICAN) at IU in her spare time.
Start with these opportunities
Research and creative activity
Blaze new intellectual and artistic trails.
Study abroad
Choose among 380+ programs that help you explore a culture, earn credit, and get experience.
Internships
Get valuable experience and connections, hone your skills, and see if you’re on the right career path.
Individualized Major Program
Undergraduates, create a multidisciplinary major that explores topics and addresses issues you’re passionate about.
Push your potential beyond the classroom
Research, creative activity, internships, and study abroad are all experiential learning activities. Find out more about these opportunities at IU Bloomington, including awards you can apply for.
Explore experiential learning at IU
Hutton Honors College and honors programs
Our most accomplished undergraduates are invited to enter the Hutton Honors College, which offers small seminars, events with special visitors to campus, scholarships, and grants for activities like research and international travel. Other IU
schools
and departments have their own honors programs.
Learn about the Hutton Honors College
Express yourself on the page or on the stage
Arts and creative opportunities abound at IU. Perform through the world-famous
IU Jacobs School of Music
or the celebrated
Department of Theatre, Drama, and Contemporary Dance
. Work for
student-run media
like IU Student Television or the nationally recognized
Indiana Daily Student
. Exhibit your art in the
Grunwald Gallery
. Write an original score for a silent film, and hear it performed at the IU Cinema—you’ll even get a $5,000 commission.
Preprofessional programs that prepare you for the next step
Are you interested in a career in law or in medicine or another health profession? The
Health Professions and Prelaw Advising
will prepare you to apply to—and get accepted by—these professional programs.
Are you a woman interested in technology? Learn about tech careers, meet other techie women at IU, and take advantage of opportunities that will put you on the path to your dream job through the
Center of Excellence for Women & Technology
.
More ways to explore your interests and get experience
750+ student organizations
Explore your interests—no matter how obscure—and rise to leadership positions.
Learning communities
Live and learn with other undergraduates who share your interests in one of 20 themes like civic leadership or business.
Leadership programs
Learn how to become a leader through the Hoosier Leadership Program and other opportunities.
The Academic Experience
Degrees & Majors
Schools
Academic Opportunities
Study Abroad
Online Classes & Programs
Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar
Academic Advising & Support
Libraries