[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/about/transportation.html

Home
About
Transportation & Parking
Transportation & Parking
Convenient ways to get around campus
Indiana University offers a variety of convenient transportation services to fit your needs. Most students walk, bike, or ride the bus to class. Discover the many safe and easy ways to get around campus.
Explore transportation options
Safe rides
Take care of yourself and take advantage of IU’s safe ride services.
IU Ride offers free rides from 8 p.m. to 1:45 a.m., seven days a week, when classes are in session.
IU Ride Late Nite by Lyft is available from midnight to 1:45 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. It provides a credit of $5.00 per Lyft ride within the designated service area. Limit 8 rides per month, tips not included. Discount code must be added to your Lyft account.
Learn more about safe rides
Visiting IU?
The
Visitor Information Center
is staffed by students who can tell you all about IU and Bloomington. The center also has information about
traveling to and from campus
.
Learn about IU visitor parking permits
Learn about parking locations
Take the bus
The IU Campus Bus Service provides routes that serve all parts of campus. Rides are free for IU students. The campus fleet is fully accessible—all buses are equipped with a kneeling feature and a wheelchair ramp. You can
track the buses in real time
.
Learn more about the Campus Bus Service
Select Bloomington Transit (BT) routes are also free of charge for IU students, staff, and faculty. Just show your CrimsonCard when boarding. A fare must be paid to ride routes 11, 12, and 14.
Learn more about Bloomington Transit
More ways to get around
Bike
IU Bloomington is a scenic, bike-friendly campus, and riding a bike is one of the best ways to get around. Learn to bike in traffic safely and confidently.
E-scooters
E-scooters are a great way to cruise around Bloomington and campus. Remember to treat them like any other vehicle on the road. Lean about essential safety tips here.
Zipcar
Rent a car by the hour or day. Available on campus to drivers 18+, including international students. Gas and insurance included
Rideshare and taxi services
Lyft
Uber
Red Tire Taxi
Hoosier Rideboard
The IU ridesharing program, available to all students, faculty, and staff, helps you find carpool partners for daily commutes or one-time trips.
Catch-A-Ride
A safe and convenient transportation option for IU students from Chicago, South Bend, and northwestern Indiana during holidays, breaks, and select weekends.
Shuttle services
Shuttle services can take you to and from the Indianapolis International Airport, a 50-mile drive from campus.
Classic Touch Limousine Service
Go Express Travel Bloomington Shuttle
Parking on and near campus
If you drive to campus regularly, a parking permit is essential. There’s no free parking on or near campus, and during busy times, expect to search for available spots.
Find IU parking lots
Don’t gamble—you
will
be ticketed for parking in an IU lot without a parking permit. The City of Bloomington will also fine you for not paying meters on streets near campus unless you have a city parking permit.
Learn more about your parking permit options.
Visit IU Parking Operations
Visit City of Bloomington Parking Services
Lock your keys in your car?
If you’re parked in an IU lot and your battery dies, you lock your keys in your car, or you get a flat tire, IU
Motorist Assistance
is here to help.
History
Rankings & Campus Statistics
Mission & Strategic Planning
Leadership & Administration
Safety & Emergency Information
Visit Campus
Transportation & Parking
Jobs at IU
How to Hire IU Students