[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/about/mission.html

Home
About
Mission & Strategic Planning
Mission & Strategic Planning
On the course of greatness
Building on more than two centuries of outstanding achievements in education, research, and the arts, Indiana University has set forth a mission to keep IU on the course of greatness in our third century.
Mission for Indiana University Bloomington
Bloomington is the flagship residential, doctoral-extensive campus of Indiana University. Its mission is to create, disseminate, preserve, and apply knowledge. It does so through its commitments to cutting-edge research, scholarship, arts, and creative activity; to challenging and inspired undergraduate, graduate, professional, and lifelong education; to culturally diverse and international educational programs and communities; to first-rate library and museum collections; to economic development in the state and region; and to meaningful experiences outside the classroom. The Bloomington campus is committed to full diversity, academic freedom, and meeting the changing educational and research needs of the state, the nation, and the world.
The Bloomington Strategic Plan
The IU Bloomington 2030 strategic plan will align with and complement IU 2030, renewing our determination to occupy the top tier in American higher education and lead boldly into the future. The following initiatives were born of the creative and solutions-focused thinking of IU 2030.
Learn more about IUB 2030
Renewing IU's commitment to sustainability
A university-wide Climate Action Planning Committee created in April 2022 is engaged in developing comprehensive recommendations to identify short- and long-term opportunities to reduce the impact of greenhouse gas emissions from the university's various campuses and units.
Follow the progress
Learn how the initiative began and where it's going.
Learn about the committee
Meet the committee members and learn about their charge.
History
Rankings & Campus Statistics
Mission & Strategic Planning
Leadership & Administration
Safety & Emergency Information
Visit Campus
Transportation & Parking
Jobs at IU
How to Hire IU Students