[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/academics/libraries.html

Home
Academics
Libraries
Libraries
Dozens of libraries connecting you to knowledge and art throughout history
The vast print and electronic collections at IU Bloomington link you to ideas, information, and creations that span disciplines, media, and millennia.
Our library system is one of the largest, best, and most innovative in the nation. IU’s libraries are open to the entire IU community and all Indiana residents. And our online tools and expert staff will help you find exactly what you need.
Explore all of IU Bloomington’s libraries and resources
11.5 million
volumes in 450 languages, plus 1.9 million e-books and 60,000 electronic journal subscriptions
130,000+
films in the IU Libraries Moving Image Archive, one of the largest film collections at an academic library
The Herman B Wells Library: resources for everyone
More than two million visitors per year access our iconic Wells Library, making it one of the most heavily used academic spaces on campus. Its two limestone towers house millions of materials and much more, including:
The Learning Commons, with individual workstations and collaboration rooms available 24/7
The Grad Commons, with resources for graduate students
The Scholars’ Commons, which supports research through workshops, individual and collaborative workspaces, access to technology and experts, and the 16-screen IQ-Wall for interactive visualization
Learn about the Wells Library
Discover rarities of all kinds at the Lilly Library
The New Testament of the Gutenberg Bible. George Washington’s letter accepting the U.S. presidency. The world’s largest collection of mechanical puzzles. These are just a few of the millions of rare books, manuscripts, and other items in IU’s Lilly Library that are available for you to see and hold.
Visit the Lilly Library
More libraries for collaborating, researching, and learning
Our dozens of libraries are spread throughout schools, residence halls, and other units on campus. They include:
The
Archives of Traditional Music
, one of the nation’s largest university-based ethnographic sound archives
The
Black Film Center & Archive
, the first archive of historically and culturally significant films by and about African Americans
The
Kinsey Institute Library and collections
, with items relating to human sexuality across more than 2,000 years
The Academic Experience
Degrees & Majors
Schools
Academic Opportunities
Study Abroad
Online Classes & Programs
Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar
Academic Advising & Support
Libraries