[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/about/safety.html

Home
About
Safety & Emergency Information
Safety & Emergency Information
We’re looking out for your safety
Bloomington is generally safe, but it’s always wise to know what to do in a potentially dangerous situation. Whether you need emergency assistance, want to stay up to date on weather that may affect the campus, or need a safe ride home late at night, we can help.
Check out these services IU and Bloomington offer to keep our students, staff, and faculty safe.
Need help?
In an emergency, always call 911 first.
On campus: Contact IU Police
Off campus: Contact Bloomington Police
IU Police Department
The IU Police Department (IUPD) is a law enforcement agency located right on campus. IUPD’s full- and part-time officers meet the same training standards as all other law enforcement officers in the state of Indiana.
Learn about IUPD
Bloomington Police Department
Officers in the Bloomington Police Department (BPD) protect approximately 80,000 residents within approximately 20 square miles in Monroe County.
Learn about BPD
Protect IU
Protect IU makes it easy for you to find all the information you need to know about health, safety, security, and preparedness. You can learn about everything from preparing for bad weather to making sure your laptop is secure. Protect IU is also the place for you to find:
Annual security and fire safety reports, including crime statistics
IU-Notify, a service that provides timely information about urgent events potentially affecting those on an IU campus
Tips to help you prepare for bad weather or emergencies
Learn about Protect IU
Stop Sexual Violence
Indiana University is committed to leading the fight against sexual violence. Eighty-nine percent of respondents to the
2019 campus climate survey
said they feel safe on campus, and we have more work to do. Help us keep our campus secure.
Stop sexual violence
Get a safe ride
IU Ride is a student-run service that allows all IU Bloomington students and employees to call from any location within Bloomington city limits for a free ride home or to work as an alternative to walking alone at night. Safe rides are available seven days a week while IU is in session.
Learn about IU Ride
History
Rankings & Campus Statistics
Mission & Strategic Planning
Leadership & Administration
Safety & Emergency Information
Visit Campus
Transportation & Parking
Jobs at IU
How to Hire IU Students