[Source URL]: https://bloomington.iu.edu/academics/advising-support.html

Home
Academics
Academic Advising & Support
Academic Advising & Support
IU Bloomington is full of people who will help you succeed
Hoosiers have one another’s backs—especially when it comes to your education.
Your academic advisors, your career advisors, and IU support programs help you excel academically, graduate on time, find your ideal path, and take important steps toward your dream career. And your professors and peers challenge you to make the most of your time here.
Tools you can use on your own
iGPS degree map for current undergraduates
Plan what to do to graduate on time.
Degree requirements
Find the academic bulletin for your school and program.
Academic advising for undergraduates
Your academic advisor will help you meet degree requirements and choose courses—but his or her biggest contribution is helping you explore your interests, determine your best path, and take advantage of opportunities on campus and beyond. You should meet with your academic advisor at least once per semester.
You’ll have an advisor in the IU
school
of your choice.
Advising & Major Exploration Services
provides academic advising for pre-business, pre-nursing, pre–social work, and exploratory students. Students in the Hutton Honors College also have access to
honors advising
.
More types of advising
Graduate student advising
Your academic advisor is in your department or school. Doctoral students also have dissertation advisors. Learn more from your school.
International student advising
Advisors in the Office of International Services can help you with immigration and other matters.
Career advising
Start in Career Exploration & Student Employment, and then consult with the career services office in your IU school.
Academic support to help all students thrive
The
Academic Support Center
offers advising, peer mentoring, and tutoring.
Accessible Educational Services
ensures that students with qualifying medical conditions have the tools, support services, and resources to be successful.
The
Assistive Technology and Accessibility Centers
offer alternate media services and hardware and software to alleviate impairments.
The
Center for Veteran and Military Students
helps students make the transition from the military to IU, understand and receive their benefits, and connect with resources and other students.
The
Indiana Statistical Consulting Center
can provide statistical support for your research project.
The
Math Learning Center
has undergraduates who tutor other students taking the same course.
The
Student Academic Center
offers peer-led study sessions for specific courses, online videos, and for-credit classes that help you succeed academically.
Writing Tutorial Services
provides one-on-one tutorials at any stage of the writing process.
More sources of academic support
Get ready for your career, deal with academic issues, and access our libraries’ wide-ranging services.
Office of Student Life
Health Professions and Prelaw Advising
Libraries
Scholars programs that will help you thrive
IU has several
scholars programs
for undergraduates who have strong academic records and leadership skills, have high financial need, and/or are the first in their families to attend college.
These programs—some of which are specifically for Indiana residents—help students transition to and succeed in college through one-on-one guidance and access to special opportunities.
Find and learn from a mentor
Potential mentors are everywhere at IU—from your professors to your older peers. IU’s formal mentoring programs include the
Office of Mentoring Services and Leadership Development
and the
Graduate Mentoring Center
.
The Academic Experience
Degrees & Majors
Schools
Academic Opportunities
Study Abroad
Online Classes & Programs
Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar
Academic Advising & Support
Libraries