[Source URL]: https://cns-nrt.indiana.edu/

The program
Understanding complex networked systems is key to solving some of the most vexing problems confronting humankind, from discovering how dynamic brain connections give rise to thoughts and behaviors, to detecting and preventing the spread of misinformation or unhealthy behaviors across a population. Graduate training, however, typically occurs in one of two dimensions: experimental and observational methods in a specific area such as biology and sociology, or in general methodologies such as machine learning and data science.
To view the video, please go to the following YouTube link:
https://youtu.be/nHUw4V3uMGM?si=hvfir9Wp6xB---VU
With more and more students seeking to gain sufficient expertise in mathematical and computational methods on top of domain-specific laboratory and social analysis methodologies, a greater demand for more efficient training is emerging. This
National Science Foundation Research Traineeship (NRT) award
to Indiana University will address this growing need with an integrated
dual PhD program
that trains students to be "bidisciplinary" in
Complex Networks and Systems (CNS)
and another discipline of their choosing from the natural and social sciences. It will seamlessly integrate traditional education with interdisciplinary hands-on research in a culture of academic and human diversity.
A unique interdisciplinary training for 34 PhD students, 40 summer affiliates and more than 300 participants across the participating PhD programs.
The training
The training program capitalizes on the new Indiana
University Network Science Institute (IUNI)
. The Institute's 165+ faculty members will serve in interdisciplinary PhD program committees to be co-chaired by research mentors from both CNS and the target empirical domain.
Project-driven
,
team-based
research at IUNI will seamlessly integrate academic education with interdisciplinary hands-on
scientific and industrial research
. Trainees will learn to connect the general-purpose, computational expertise of CNS to the deep, domain-specific research methodologies of the natural, behavioral, and social sciences thus bridging the gap between distinct training cultures. They will be a new breed of STEM scientists that escapes the silos of disciplinary training to address the
complex problems of the 21st century
.
Research Proficiency
Provide research proficiency with a dual PhD program.
Collaborative skills
Develop collaborative skills via early integration into problem-driven, interdisciplinary research.
Diverse background
Produce a diverse workforce by recruiting student cohorts from a broad set of disciplines and varied backgrounds to be trained within a team culture.
Interdisciplinary training
Establish a sustainable interdisciplinary training model by enlarging the institutional channels created between informatics and natural and social sciences to other Indiana University departments and institutions.
NRT projects point the way to how STEM education ought to be, not how it has been.
Jim Lewis, NSF Director for Education & Human Resources