[Source URL]: https://cogs.indiana.edu/graduate/how-to-apply/index.html

Cognitive Science Ph.D.
Joint Ph.D. Degree
Ph.D. Minor in Cognitive Science
Courses
Financial Support
Student Experience
How to Apply
Department Liaisons
Home
Graduate
How to Apply
How to Apply
Admission to the Cognitive Science Ph.D. Program
Ph.D. in Cognitive Science
Electronic application is required for both domestic and international applicants. Deadline to receive applications is December 1.
We will consider applications after the deadline.
Apply online
The application process
Keep in mind that putting together your application materials is both a goal and a means to a goal. The primary goal is discovering if your interests and abilities match those of the Cognitive Science Program, and if you seem likely to benefit from an education here. We understand that the application process can be very complicated, so please do not hesitate to contact Susan Palmer at
stowle@indiana.edu
with any questions.
You have the option of choosing to supplement the required application materials with other data that shed light on your capabilities, but this is not required. Some materials (the transcript of your bachelor's degree, for example) are required by the university and cannot be waived by the program.
Items that are important in the evaluation process, for both domestic and international students, include:
Educational background
If you have majored in other fields and you are encouraged to apply if you have been exposed to have mastered basic computer programming skills and basic knowledge of mathematics for science, including calculus and statistics. The best preparation for graduate work in cognitive science normally comes from degrees in psychology, computer science, philosophy, or linguistics, as well as in cognitive science itself. Students who have majored in other fields, such as sociology, political science, biology, mathematics, and music, are encouraged to apply if they have been exposed to a wide range of coursework as undergraduates. In exceptional cases, the programming or mathematics admission requirements may be waived and satisfied while pursuing graduate study.
Letters of reference
Except in special cases, references should be from academic faculty. We ask for three letters, but you may submit more. For example, if you have experience as a teaching assistant, an additional letter from your teaching supervisor attesting to your teaching abilities could help your application for aid. Keep in mind that the committee is trying to evaluate your potential to successfully complete an advanced degree at IU, so provide us with references that can illuminate your potential performance as a graduate student. Try to get up-to-date letters. If you have spent the past two years at the University of Fredonia but none of your letters is from faculty there, it might raise questions in the minds of the admissions committee.
GRE scores
We do not require scores for a GRE area exam. We do not have cut-offs for GRE scores, preferring instead to use the full information available in your dossier.
Statement of purpose
This is your chance to explain to us what your plans are. Briefly convey your vision of the future of cognitive science if you wish, but also try to give us an idea of your personal plan of action for the future. We are aware that such plans can and should change rapidly, particularly in a fast-moving area like cognitive science. You should tell us which research areas you are most interested in and describe any research experiences you have had. You can use the statement of purpose to explain any anomalies in your record, but in general dwelling on the past is backward-looking—what you want to communicate is your forward-looking plan.
Transcripts
You need a transcript from all previous undergraduate institutions attended, and the university requires at least one that certifies that you have received a bachelor's degree (or “bachelor's equivalent” for international students).
Department
&
institution codes
GRE
scores: Institution code 1324 (Indiana University); Department code 5199 (for any department not listed). Please note GRE scores are not required for the application process.
TOEFL
scores: Institution code 1324 (Indiana University); Department code 99 (for any department not listed)
If you have any questions regarding what department and institution codes to use, visit the
ETS website
.
Supplemental admissions materials are not required but you are welcome to submit any that help define you as a Cognitive Science student. Send updates of any information that is relevant to the admissions process, such as the publication of a paper or winning of an award. Do this even if it is past the application deadline; sometimes your dossier will be under consideration for a lengthy period. If you have work that has been refereed and published, send a citation to that work. Please forward a PDF file of research or publication papers to:
stowle@indiana.edu
.
The following points are relevant only for international applicants.
Applications from foreign students require additional processing by the university’s International Admissions Office, so those applications need to be submitted by December 1 for fall semester.
TOEFL
scores are required for non-native English speakers. In addition, Indiana University has a university-wide special test for teaching assistants, and you cannot become an associate instructor (AI) until you pass it. Failing to pass that exam means you can only be a grader for courses, marking homework papers—and there is a significantly larger workload both for you and the program in general.
Domestic applicants
Domestic applicants should send admission materials (e.g. paper recommendation letters, transcripts) to the following address:
Cognitive Science Program
1001 E. 10th St.
Indiana University
Bloomington, Indiana 47405
International applicants
International applicants should follow instructions from the Office of International Services page:
Office of International Services
Contact Information:
Phone: (812) 855-9086
Fax: (812) 855-4418
Admission Email:
newtoiu@iu.edu
General Email:
ois@iu.edu
Mailing Address:
Office of International Services
Indiana University
Ferguson International Center
330 N. Eagleson Avenue
Bloomington, Indiana 47405
Joint Ph.D. program applicants
You must apply to the originating program for admission. Once admitted, you then contact the Cognitive Science Program to apply for a dual degree. For more information, contact Susan Palmer at
stowle@indiana.edu
.
Ready to apply?
Apply online