[Source URL]: https://college.indiana.edu/index.html

Make way for the leaders, creatives, and groundbreakers of tomorrow
We prepare students for an ever-changing future by providing a foundational liberal arts and sciences education that is more relevant than ever. Here, breakthroughs are fueled by unfiltered imaginations and unconventional ideas. Whether in the classroom or in the lab, on stage or in the field, you’ll gain the skills and experience you need for what’s new, next, and not-yet-imagined.
Undergraduate experience
Learn about our degree programs, the admissions process, experiential learning, research opportunities, and career preparation.
Graduate experience
Find information about graduate degree programs, admissions, funding opportunities, research, and career preparation.
Study challenges ‘publish or perish’ culture
The longstanding “publish or perish” culture in academia is coming under renewed scrutiny, as a new study published in
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
argues that current incentives in academic publishing can hinder scientific progress and knowledge sharing.
Read about the study
Rebel with a Clause comes to Bloomington
A special screening of the celebrated docu-comedy Rebel with a Clause will take place on Thursday, April 17 at 7:00 p.m. at Bloomington’s Buskirk-Chumley Theater. The event, sponsored by the Department of English in the College, is open to the public and made possible through the support of the English department’s Culbertson Fund, which fosters student engagement in creative, professional, and public writing.
Read about the event
4+1 Pathway aids early Criminal Justice master’s degree attainment
Drawn to issues of justice and humanitarianism early in her life, senior Shamaria Thomas (
B.A. '25, Criminology and Criminal Justice
) has been pursuing her major in Indiana University Bloomington’s College of Arts and Sciences under the Criminal Justice Accelerated Master’s Program, also known as the 4+1 Pathway.
Read about Shamaria
GenAI in the classroom
Vivian Halloran thinks so highly of IU's GenAI in the Classroom Canvas course that she wrote the below feature on it (after she and her co-instructor used it to boldly redesign their Human Dilemmas course). For her, it proved to be a timely resource for bridging the knowledge-gap between faculty and students about the uses and dilemmas posed by rapidly proliferating generative AI (GenAI).
Read about the course
Love grows
As Jeff and Jane got to know each other at Bear’s, they recognized in each other a kindred spirit with shared values. Jane became a regular partner on nature walks with Jeff or helping collect plant samples for Jeff’s thesis research in Spencer or Ellettsville. Once she graduated and moved back to her hometown, however, their paths diverged. Neither expected that fate would land them next door to each other.
Read about Jeff and Jane Doyle
Study reveals how a virus builds its protective shell
A research team led by Marc Morais, Professor of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry in the College of Arts and Sciences at Indiana University Bloomington, have uncovered exciting new details about how a tiny virus builds its protective outer shell.
Read about the study
A hub for curiosity + diverse thought
The College of Arts and Sciences values diversity, equity, and inclusion as core strengths and essential elements in the success of its educational mission. Our commitment is grounded in our aspiration to cultivate intellectual rigor and curiosity among our students and to prepare them to thrive in and contribute to a globally diverse, complex, and interconnected world.
Upcoming events
Apr
16
Exhibition: Divine Adornment: Community Stories of Belonging
All day
IU Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, 416 N. Indiana Ave., Bloomington, IN 47408
-
Apr
16
M.F.A. Thesis Exhibitions
All day
Fine Arts Building, 1201 East 7th Street, Bloomington, IN 47405
-
View more events
Latest news
IU researchers co-author study challenging ‘publish or perish’ culture, call for overhaul of academic publishing
Acclaimed docu-comedy Rebel with a Clause comes to Bloomington for one-night-only screening
The Final Push: Making it to the end of the semester
See more news
Learn more about the College
Plan a visit
Research + Creative Activity
Alumni + Giving