[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/ms-bioinformatics.html

Home
Programs
M.S. in Bioinformatics
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Apply computer science to biological data
Let's stay in touch!
Data is driving advances in all areas of biology, agriculture, and biotechnology, as well as applications like personalized medicine. In the two-year Master of Science in Bioinformatics, you will learn to model, analyze, and manage massive amounts of biological data.
Also known as computational biology, bioinformatics is a fast-growing field. Our interdisciplinary program emphasizes computation and informatics but also integrates knowledge from biology, statistics, and related areas. You will be part of a tight-knit program, study in one of the nation’s top technology schools and biology departments, and have access to leading-edge resources like the
Big Red 200 supercomputer
.
Start a bioinformatics career or earn a Ph.D.
About half of our graduates are hired by companies or by research hospitals such as the Mayo Clinic and Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. The other half enter Ph.D. programs. One program you can consider: IU’s
Ph.D. in Informatics
, which offers a track in bioinformatics.
Learn about career preparation and services
How to apply
Cost and financial aid
Funding opportunities
A wide-ranging, flexible program
First-year curriculum
INFO-I 519 Introduction to Bioinformatics in the fall
INFO-I 529 Machine Learning in Bioinformatics in the spring
Electives—fill out your schedule each semester with your choice of courses in areas like biology, data mining, cancer genomics, machine learning, modeling, statistics, or data science
Summer
This is an ideal time for an internship.
Second-year curriculum
A yearlong, 6 credit hour capstone research project, giving you valuable experience in a topic such as analysis of next-generation sequencing data, epigenomics, metagenomics, glycomics, evolutionary and comparative genomics, or disease networks
More electives
Learn about research in the Department of Computer Science
Prerequisites
M.S. in Bioinformatics students are expected—but not required—to have at least introductory knowledge of both biology and informatics, including:
Approximately 6 credit hours of undergraduate coursework in biology, covering molecular biology, genetics, and evolution
Approximately 6 credit hours of undergraduate coursework in computer science or informatics, covering programming, discrete structures, and data structures
If you haven’t completed these prerequisites, you will be required to take one or two appropriate 500-level background classes.
International students
Many of our graduate students, as well as our faculty, in computer science come to Bloomington from outside the United States. Indiana University draws students from around the globe for other programs of study. The university, our department, and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering offer many types of support for you and our global community.
Learn about international student support
Learn about careers
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the M.S. in Bioinformatics are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If your start year is not listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Current student resources
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Advising
For guidance and assistance, contact Volker Brendel, the program director, at
vbrendel@iu.edu
or the Luddy Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
.
Take the next step
Apply now
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science