[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/certificate-cybersecurity.html

Home
Programs
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
Build your skills in an essential area: cybersecurity
Across our nation, there are significant gaps in the pool of skilled cybersecurity professionals. Failing to address our cybersecurity workforce needs exposes our critical infrastructure to threats, vulnerabilities, and attacks. Professionals who understand how to design, develop, and manage secure systems can help to fight the increasingly sophisticated attacks that threaten our critical resources.
This 12 credit hour, one- to two-semester certificate will give you a technical foundation in designing, implementing, and managing secure information technology systems. You’ll also gain insight into the social, legislative, and economic factors that affect individuals’ and organizations’ security decisions.
To see when particular courses are offered, search our course offerings.
Who the certificate is for
All graduate students and all undergraduates who have completed their undergraduate requirements (even if they have not formally graduated yet) can apply to earn this certificate.
Students must have an appropriate technical background in computer science, informatics, or a related field.
How to apply
You should apply at least 90 days before the start of the semester in which you want to begin the certificate.
All items in the application checklist must be submitted electronically with the online application.
Application checklist
Online application
For your program, select “Graduate Certification in Cybersecurity.”
Go to the online application
Application fee
The fee is nonrefundable. The fee is waived for applicants who are active-duty U.S. military or who have been active within the past 12 months—please upload documentation to your application.
Transcript
Submit an electronic copy of your official transcript(s) from each previous undergraduate or graduate institution that you have attended. These should be submitted in the Academic History quadrant of the application.
Statement of interest
Do not exceed 400 words.
One letter of recommendation
Enter your recommender’s contact information in the online application, and they will receive a request to submit a letter.
Resume
Please include any awards or publications.
Demonstration of English proficiency
Non-native English speakers, who aren’t enrolled at IU, and didn’t graduate from IU within the past two years, submit Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) scores to institution code 1324 and department code 78. We require an internet-based test (iBT) score of at least 96 or a paper-based test score of at least 600.
Cost
Learn about
costs for the residential certificate
.
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Take your security skills to the next level
Learn about the M.S. in Secure Computing
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science