[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/careers/index.html

Home
Careers
Careers
Skills and career services for a thriving computer science career
Computer science graduates are in high demand—especially computer science graduates from IU. Our
programs
will teach you the in-depth technical skills and adaptability that employers are looking for. Our grads work for employers like Amazon, ServiceNow, Microsoft, GE, IBM, and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Employers
Learn about hiring our skilled and prepared students.
Career outcomes for 2022 B.S. graduates
93%
secured employment or continued their education
$81,209
average full-time starting salary
Career outcomes for 2022 M.S. graduates
100%
secured employment or continued their education
$128,500
average full-time starting salary
A sampling of places our alumni land
Learn about career services
Luddy Career Services—our school-wide career services office—helps undergrads, graduate students, and alumni realize their career potential.
Log into Handshake
Apply for jobs and internships, post your resume for employers to see, RSVP for employer events, schedule coaching sessions, and more.
Internships and other ways to get the experience that employers love
Employers look for students with work experience, especially technical work experience. In addition to giving you experience, internships enable you to make a good impression at an organization that may want to hire you later. You may also be able to earn credit toward your degree.
You can also take advantage of
research opportunities
, on-campus jobs (through
Jobs at IU
) or other part-time work,
volunteer opportunities
, and
student organizations
like the
Computer Science Club
.
Log into Handshake to see internship openings
Develop your skills in a professional setting while earning credit toward your degree
Serving an internship allows you to make the professional world your classroom, and our
Y399 Project in Professional Practice
course will allow you to build valuable experience while receiving credit toward your degree. Computer science is a rapidly evolving field, and you can pursue your future while developing your skills.
International students
IU’s
Immigration Bridge Program
can help you with the H-1B visa process and improve your chances of getting job offers.
Before the job offer stage, F-1 international students have two options for off-campus employment: Curricular Practical Training and Optional Practical Training.
Curricular Practical Training
Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is paid work that is integral to your program and that you do for an off-campus employer in your field of study while you are enrolled as a student. Paid internships are a form of CPT.
The IU Office of International Services has
detailed information about CPT
.
Undergraduates
Talk to your
advisor
for help applying for CPT.
Graduate students
Contact the Computer Science Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
before you start your application so we can guide you through the CPT process.
When you receive an offer letter from your employer, please send the following to
gradvise@iu.edu
:
Your full name
Your program
Your student ID number
A PDF version of the offer letter
A description of the nature of the employment and how this employment directly relates to your coursework and program
Also be sure to review the Career Services Office
recruiting guidelines
.
Optional Practical Training
Optional Practical Training (OPT) is work done for an off-campus employer in your field of study, usually following graduation.
The IU Office of International Services has
detailed information about OPT
.
Computer science alumni include:
Dong Yu, MS’96
IEEE fellow; distinguished scientist and vice general manager, Tencent AI Lab
He conducts research on multimodal dialog systems. Before joining Tencent, he was a principal researcher studying speech and dialog at Microsoft Research.
Valkyrie Savage, BS’10
HCI researcher and sensor architect, Tactual Labs; CEO, Savage Internet
She helps create new input devices for mixed-reality, automotive, and display-based interactions and leads a educational game company.
Jeff Johnson, MS’12, PhD’17
Senior autonomy engineer, Uber Advanced Technologies Group
He works on motion planning for automated vehicles. Prior to joining Uber ATG, he was a robotics engineer at Robert Bosch LLC and Apple.
Get ready for technical interviews
You may be asked to participate in a technical interview during the second round of face-to-face interviews if an employer wants to evaluate your technical skills. We offer several ways to help you prepare for your technical interviews:
Log into Handshake
and go to the Career Search Guide to learn all about technical interviews.
Make an appointment with the Career Services Office for a mock technical interview.
Participate in our programming competitions.
Join the
Programmatik
club, which brings students together to practice for programming interviews.
Start your career preparation
Log into Handshake