[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/ms-computer-science.html

Home
Programs
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Computer Science
Master the field of computer science
Our Master of Science in Computer Science program is a technical, highly marketable degree that combines courses on computing fundamentals with cutting-edge applications of computer science—all to prepare you for a job in Silicon Valley and beyond.
Let's stay in touch
In our program, you will explore every facet of computer science, from applications to software libraries to operating systems to hardware. You will also learn about topics that are shaping the future of computing—including artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data, and security—and become adept at finding solutions that are fast, efficient, secure, and scalable.
Students typically complete the M.S. in Computer Science in one and a half or two years.
Successful graduates
Our graduates are in high demand. They become software engineers, technical consultants, programmers, security consultants, and analysts for companies such as IBM, Yahoo!, Cerner, Expedia, and Amazon.
Learn about careers
Career outcomes for 2022 M.S. graduates
100%
secured employment or continued their education within six months of graduation
$126,067
average full-time starting salary (2021 and 2022 cohorts)
$25,719
average signing bonus
A sampling of places our alumni land
How to apply
Cost and financial aid
Funding opportunities
Internships or independent study
Our Creativity Requirement ensures you get practical experience while making progress on your degree. Complete an unpaid internship or multiple paid internships locally or on the coasts while earning course credit and making connections with potential employers. Or partner with our faculty members on research and get credit for independent study. Either way, you will build your skills—and your resume.
Explore our research
Meet our faculty
International students
Many of our graduate students, as well as our faculty, in computer science come to Bloomington from outside the United States. Indiana University draws students from around the globe for other programs of study. The university, our department, and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering offer many types of support for you and our global community.
Learn about international student support
Learn about careers
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the M.S. in Computer Science are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If your start year is not listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Current student resources
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Special opportunities
Indiana Genomics Research Training Program
The INGEN4CS provides support for CS Master students (US citizen or PR required) to conduct genomics research that will prepare them to decode the functional information hidden in DNA sequences.
Apply Now
Advising
For current graduate students, contact the Advising and Student Services Department at
gradvise@iu.edu
.
For prospective students, contact the Luddy Graduate Studies Office at
GoLuddy@iu.edu
.
Take the next step
Apply now
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science