[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/bs-computer-science/index.html

Home
Programs
B.S. in Computer Science
B.S. in Computer Science
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science
Learn how to tap into the power of computing with our Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Computer Science. At Luddy, we give you the skills and know-how to address even the world’s most complex problems using technology, from your phone to your future self-driving car.
Your experience as a computer science major—including challenging class projects, internship and research opportunities, and career-oriented degree concentrations—will prepare you to work in a variety of settings and thrive as technology changes. Our graduates’ skills and versatility are why major tech employers like Amazon and GM hire them, and why their average starting salary is $81,219.
Career outcomes
96%
Employed or in grad school (2023)
$84,064
Average starting salary (2023)
Talk to a recruiter
Apply now
Let's stay in touch
Complete this form to learn more about computer science at IU.
Luddy Undergraduate Marketing Campaign
Name
*
First
Last
Email
*
Expected High School Graduation Year
*
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Interested Major
Any
Cybersecurity and Global Policy
Computer Science
Data Science
Informatics
Intelligent Systems Engineering
UTM Campaign
UTM Source
UTM Medium
UTM Content
UTM Term
Stream
Computer Science career outcomes and salary
Our graduates report career success in roles like engineer, analyst, developer, consultant, and data scientist. In fact, 92 percent of our graduates move on to employment or graduate school.
Take advantage of the possibilities of a career in computer science backed by a well-rounded foundational knowledge and targeted expertise in your specific field through Luddy’s B.S. in Computer Science.
Learn about careers
Top job titles (of 77 reported titles)
37
Engineer (data, ML, platform, production, QA, software, solutions)
8
Developer (digital tech, full-stack, Python, software)
8
Analyst (consulting, trading, solutions engineering)
19
Other (consultant, associate, scientist, manager)
A sampling of places our alumni land
Katie Spoon
B.S. in Computer Science (artificial intelligence specialization), Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Today
Conceiving and conducting a study that uses neural networks to identify characteristics of dyslexia in children's handwriting, to spur earlier evaluation
Tomorrow
Working in corporate research—like her internship analyzing and improving AI hardware accelerators at IBM Research—and later for a tech-oriented nonprofit
Learn about research opportunities
Computer Science major specializations
Build key skills in some of computer science’s most marketable areas by focusing your bachelor’s degree in one of the following eight specializations.
In addition to specialization areas, Indiana University offers multiple opportunities to diversify your degree with
minors from Luddy
or from
another IU school
. You can round out your computer science bachelor’s degree with a
Minor in IT
or even begin taking graduate courses to concurrently earn an
accelerated M.S. in computer science
.
Software Engineering
B.S. in Computer Science students specializing in software engineering learn essential and advanced programming techniques for designing, debugging, and more.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the software engineering specialization.
Artificial Intelligence
Focusing in artificial intelligence, computer science majors study various methods of data collection, analysis, and machine learning to develop skills sought by many industries.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the artificial intelligence specialization.
Computer Security
Information assurance is the name of the game for your future employers. Learn how to secure systems and networks with a study focus in computer security.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the computer security specialization.
Game Development
Prepare for a career in game programming and development with this immersive computer science major specialization.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the game development specialization.
Data Science
Master the acquisition, modeling, and storage of data in the context of data analysis and algorithm design by focusing your major in data science.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the data science specialization.
Foundations
Our foundations specialization further enhances your knowledge of the key fundamentals of computer science theory. If you enjoy finding patterns and excel at math, add the foundations specialization to your computer science major.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the foundations specialization.
Programming Languages
Students interested in advanced computer programming should select the programming languages degree specialization.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the programming languages specialization.
Systems
Incorporating courses covering computer hardware and software systems, the computer science systems specialization is great for students interested in building and operating networked systems.
Review details and a sample curriculum for the systems specialization.
Computer science may be perfect for you if you like math, science, playing and making games, logical or technical writing, playing music, or—oh yeah—working with computers.
Student research at Luddy
Across the Luddy School and Indiana University, students and faculty conduct boundary-pushing research projects in areas that range from bioinformatics and computational biology to security and privacy.
The
Undergraduate Research Opportunities in Computing student research program
is an invaluable way for undergraduate computer science students to receive hands-on research experience while earning their degree. Under the mentorship of experienced faculty or Ph.D. students, you’ll participate in research that is relevant to your industry and opens further career opportunities in computer science.
Luddy Living Learning Center
The Luddy Living Learning Center (LLC) is a residential community designed for first-years at IU Bloomington. Along with providing students with unique opportunities for trips and speaker events, the Luddy LLC houses one of
our makerspaces
featuring high-tech equipment just for Luddy students.
Explore the Luddy LLC.
Student organizations
From Women in Computing to the Sociotechnical Ethics Society, Luddy School students can join a number of student clubs on campus. For computer science students, check out the
Programmatik club
, the
Computer Science club
, and the complete list of
Luddy’s student organizations
.
Computer Science degree requirements
Requirements for the B.S. in Computer Science—including the honors option—are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review the specific requirements for your degree, choose the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
Example Computer Science Course Plan
Computer Science Requirements 2024-25
Computer Science Requirements 2023-24
Computer Science Requirements 2022-23
Computer Science Requirements 2021-22
Find Requirements in Earlier Bulletins
IU computer science related programs
Explore the extensive offerings of IU’s computer science programs, even if an undergraduate computer science major doesn’t match your career goals.
Minor in computer science
Students in other Luddy or IU bachelor’s degree programs can
minor in computer science
to pick up programming skills and qualify for further career opportunities.
Computer Science Master's Program
Undergraduates in Luddy’s B.S. in Computer Science program can take advantage of the
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science program
or the
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing program
to graduate with both a B.S. and an M.S. in Computer Science in just five years.
Explore the
complete list of computer science master’s degree programs
offered by Luddy.
Luddy School advising and student resources
Whether you’re already a computer science student or you’re undeclared, advisors at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering can help you understand computer science degree requirements, take advantage of academic opportunities, and personalize your journey to meet your goals.
Exploratory IU students can learn more by contacting
Luddy School undergraduate advisors
.
Academic resources for current computer science students can be found in the
student portal
.
Talk to your advisor
Go to our student portal
IU scholarships and aid
It’s easy to estimate how much you’ll pay to attend the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering. Through direct-admit scholarships and federal financial aid, you can lower the cost of attending IU for your B.S. in Computer Science.
Review
cost and financial aid information, explore scholarship opportunities
, or calculate
how much attending IU will cost you
.
Earn a B.S. in Computer Science at Indiana University
Luddy’s Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree program empowers students to excel in their future careers through unique research opportunities, the power of peer networks, and top-of-the-line instruction in several key areas of computer science.
For more information about the B.S. in Computer Science, contact the Department of Computer Science.
Review Luddy admission requirements and learn how to apply.
Apply to the B.S. in Computer Science at IU Bloomington.
B.S. in Computer Science
Specializations
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science