[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/phd-computer-science.html

Home
Programs
Ph.D. in Computer Science
Ph.D. in Computer Science
Explore new frontiers in computing
Our Ph.D. in Computer Science gives you the opportunity to conduct theoretical and practical research in a broad range of subfields of computer science or in the intersection of computer science and disciplines such as biology, cognitive science, or statistics.
In one of the nation’s top computer science departments, you will complete rigorous coursework that gives you a strong foundation, learn about key topics like artificial intelligence and systems, explore additional areas of interest through independent study and a minor, and get experience via internships. After this extensive preparation, you will complete a qualifying exam and write a dissertation on a topic of your choosing.
Preparation for industry, research labs, or academia
Many of our Ph.D. graduates are hired by employers like Facebook/Meta, Microsoft, Apple, Google, Intel, MathWorks, Bosch, and Electronic Arts. Others work for research labs like Sandia National Laboratories or go to institutions like Carnegie Mellon, Oberlin College, King Saud University, Yale University, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, and Georgia Tech. Before you join them, come enjoy life at Indiana University and in Bloomington, one of the nation’s best small cities.
Learn about careers
Average starting salary (2022)
$137,090
A sampling of places our alumni land
How to apply
Learn about the application deadline and what to submit with your application.
Cost
See what a Luddy education costs and learn about the cost of living in Bloomington.
Funding opportunities
We strive to provide financial support to all Ph.D. students during their academic careers.
Research
You will do research in a department with a long tradition of innovation, alongside faculty who are shaping the future of computer science in areas like artificial intelligence, machine learning, bioinformatics, databases, programming languages, theory, and security. Plus, you will have access to
IU extensive supercomputer resources
.
Internships
Most of our Ph.D. students do summer or semester internships with companies like Google, Facebook, and Microsoft. Whether you want to go to a research lab or do a software engineering internship, you will get the experience and connections that will help you in your career.
Other opportunities
Other unique IU opportunities include the
joint Ph.D. program with cognitive science
and the Ph.D. in Computer Science with a
logic minor or logic certificate
.
Choose a minor
Broaden your education with a minor. You can choose a closely related field like math or take advantage of Indiana University’s wide-ranging programs and select a minor in an area like music. Other options include an internal minor of computer science credits or an individualized interdisciplinary minor.
Learn about
Ph.D. minors offered by the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
. For information about minors outside Luddy, visit the websites of IU Bloomington’s other
degree-granting colleges and schools
.
We also offer a Ph.D. minor in computer science for doctoral students in other IU departments.
International students
Many of our graduate students, as well as our faculty, in computer science come to Bloomington from outside the United States. Indiana University draws students from around the globe for other programs of study. The university, our department, and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering offer many types of support for you and our global community.
Learn about international student support
Learn about careers
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the Ph.D. in Computer Science and the Ph.D. minor in Computer Science are listed in the University Graduate School academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If your start year is not listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Current student resources
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Advising
For guidance and assistance early in your studies, contact Luyi Xing, the graduate program director for Ph.D. in Computer Science, at
luyixing@iu.edu
or the Luddy Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
. Later you can contact your faculty advisor or Advisory Committee. We also recommend regularly consulting the timeline in the Ph.D. student handbook.
Take the next step
Learn about funding
Apply now
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science