[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/ms-secure-computing-reei.html

Home
Programs
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Cybersecurity skills plus expertise in Russia and Eastern Europe
This dual degree combines the
Master of Science in Secure Computing
and the Master of Arts in Russian and East European Studies, offered by IU’s
Russian and East European Institute
. The program is a response to the growing need for computer security personnel with domain knowledge in Russia and Eastern Europe.
You’ll earn two degrees in fewer credit hours—and less time—than it would take to earn them separately.
Let's stay in touch!
We want to hear from you! The Luddy School is here to answer any questions you may have, and we’re more than happy to guide you down your path to tomorrow.
Request more information
How to apply
You must apply for admission to—and meet the admission requirements for—both programs.
Apply to the M.S. in Secure Computing
Apply to the M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Tuition rates
Different Indiana University schools charge different graduate tuition rates. You should expect to pay University Graduate School tuition rates for approximately half of your enrolled semesters and Luddy tuition rates for the other half.
Cost and financial aid
Computer science funding opportunities
International students
Many of our graduate students, as well as our faculty, in computer science come to Bloomington from outside the United States. Indiana University draws students from around the globe for other programs of study. The university, our department, and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering offer many types of support for you and our global community.
Learn about international student support
Learn about careers
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the dual M.S. in Secure Computing (formerly called the M.S. in Security Informatics) and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies are listed in the University Graduate School academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
For a detailed list of the M.S. in Secure Computing requirements, contact Jean Camp at
ljcamp@iu.edu
.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Current student resources
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Advising
For guidance and assistance, contact Jean Camp, the M.S. in Secure Computing program director, at
ljcamp@iu.edu
or the Luddy Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
.
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science