[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/accelerated-ms-computer-science.html

Home
Programs
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
A five-year B.S. M.S. program
If you’re in our
B.S. in Computer Science
program, good news: you can apply for our accelerated master’s program and earn both the B.S. and a
Master of Science in Computer Science
in just five years, increasing your expertise and your earning potential.
Why do the accelerated master’s?
Earn more, sooner
In 2022, our traditional M.S. graduates had an average starting salary of $128,500.
Prepare to be promoted
When you’re hired, you’ll already have the advanced skills and degree you need to move up.
Save time and money
You’ll take up to 9 fewer credit hours than if you earned a B.S. and M.S. individually.
Build on your connections here
Learn even more from your IU mentors, and keep collaborating with your friends and partners.
Get the same valuable degree
All M.S. in Computer Science students earn the same degree and diploma.
How it works
The program is designed so that highly motivated students can earn a master’s degree in just one additional year. To do that, you’ll take at least one graduate-level course during your senior year, when you’re still classified as an undergraduate. You need to request permission from your advisor.
You’ll be classified as an undergraduate through the last semester you are enrolled in undergrad requirements. You have to complete at least 15 hours of coursework while classified as a grad student.
Undergraduate scholarships and funding
Transitioning to graduate student status may affect any undergrad scholarships or other funding you have. Make sure to check on this and plan for it.
Costs
For the semesters you are in graduate status, you will pay the same tuition and fees as other M.S. students. Learn about costs and financial aid.
When you’ll get your degrees
Degrees are awarded separately as the degree requirements have been met for each degree.
B.S. M.S. Accelerated application deadlines
Students should apply during their junior year.
June 1
- Applications open
November 1
- Priority deadline
April 1
- Last date to submit application
What is the Admissions Committee looking for in a Computer Science B.S. M.S. Accelerated applicant?
Each program has its own admissions committee that reviews applications. The committee also reviews applications for any type of school-offred funding. The committee seeks students who are good program fits.
Computer Science B.S. M.S. Accelerated applicant profile
Undergraduate Major:
Computer Science
GPA and core course requirements:
For admission to the Accelerated Master’s Program, students must have earned a major and program GPA of at least 3.0 and an average grade of B or higher on Computer Science core courses (C200 or C211, C212, C241 and C343). A grade of B or higher in each core course is strongly recommended. Applicants with grades below the recommendation are encouraged to prepare alternate post-graduation plans to ensure a range of opportunities for their next steps.
Other requirements:
Proficient in programming languages such as Python, Java, C, or C++
Undergraduate coursework in the following areas:
Foundational concepts of computer science and mathematics
Data structures and algorithm analysis
Computer structures, compilers, and operating systems
TOEFL/IELTS/Duolingo (required for international students). The majority of our students score 100 on the TOEFL, 7.0 on the IELTS, and 130 on the Duolingo.
GRE, optional
How to apply
To apply to the B.S. M.S. Accelerated program, you must first talk with your
undergraduate advisor
, who will review your academic record to ensure that you meet the admission requirements. If you meet the requirements, the advisor will notify the Luddy Graduate Office who will provide you with an invitation code which will give you access to the application. The Luddy Graduate Office will also provide you with an application fee waiver code.
Evaluation
The admission committee will make the final decision on admissions after reviewing the entire application package.
Application supporting materials include:
CV/Resume
Personal Statement
Letter of Recommendation, at least one recommendation is required
Transcript, a scanned copy
TOEFL/TOEFL at Home Edition/IELTS or Duolingo Scores, for international students
GRE optional
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the Accelerated MS in Computer Science are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
If your start year isn’t listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Special opportunities
Indiana Genomics Research Training Program
The INGEN4CS provides support for CS Master students (US citizen or PR required) to conduct genomics research that will prepare them to decode the functional information hidden in DNA sequences.
Apply Now
Questions
If you have questions about your application, email
GoLuddy@iu.edu
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science