[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/

Computer science is everywhere
Computing touches everything. It affects all aspects of our lives. And it enables us to do things that once seemed impossible.
In the Department of Computer Science, you will learn to use computers to develop fast, scalable, and secure solutions to a range of problems—and to make more incredible ideas possible.
We see what tomorrow can be, and we shape it every day.
Learn how to apply
See what you need to do and when. You can also plan a visit and learn about scholarships and funding.
Find your program
See our options for undergraduates, master‘s students, and Ph.D. students.
Explore our research
Learn how we are advancing computer science and using it to solve significant problems.
we code
we solve
we secure
we program
we robotize
we analyze
we network
we process
we predict
we structure
we simulate
we invent
we design
we see
We see
tomorrow
Expertise from programming languages to machine learning
Our faculty members’ specialties span the continuum of computing. Algorithms. Artificial intelligence. Systems. Security. And much more.
Meet our faculty
Ruiyu Zhu
Ph.D. in Computer Science, studying cryptography and security
Today
Creating more practical protocols for multi-party computation (MPC), so parties can jointly compute a function while keeping their data private
Tomorrow
Developing a highly efficient MPC protocol that can be used for tasks like processing huge volumes of medical information and applying machine learning to sensitive commercial data
Learn about the Ph.D. in Computer Science
690
undergraduate students
290
graduate students
49
faculty members
Luddy in the news
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Luddy School study to help women achieve peak athletic performance
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
See more news
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply