[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/ms-secure-computing.html

Home
Programs
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Technology-focused cybersecurity degree: Master's of Science in Secure Computing
A high degree of excellence
The MS in Secure Computing is an NSA-validated program of study, aligning to the NCAE-C standards for cybersecurity curriculum and academic excellence.
CAE-C community
Power plants. Election systems. Your bank. Your car. Everything that uses a computing system is a target. The world needs professionals like you to protect our technology and understand the people who would do harm.
Our technology-focused cybersecurity master's degree takes a highly technical, multifaceted approach to cybersecurity. In this two-year program, you will become adept at many aspects of cybersecurity, including networking, access control, cryptography, forensics, human-computer interaction, and social engineering. When you graduate, you will be ready to use the latest tools for identifying and mitigating threats—and you will be ready to design innovative tools of your own.
A growing and critical field
Every company needs people with cybersecurity skills. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects the job market for security professionals to grow 35 percent by 2031, and the field is among the most lucrative in IT.
7 graduates between 2019 and 2022: Employers were IU, NSWC Crane, Bridge Advisory, General Electric, and Central Bank of Uruguay. Graduates of our program have been hired by a wide range of organizations, including the National Security Agency, EY, Microsoft, GM, NVIDIA, and Visa.
Learn about career preparation and services
Let's stay in touch
Complete this form to learn more about this degree program at IU and the Luddy School.
How to apply
Cost and financial aid
Funding opportunities
Our curriculum is designed so that you will:
Develop a deep understanding of computing systems and networks
Master the fundamental ideas, skills, models, and tools of cybersecurity and privacy, including technical and social approaches
Get hands-on, practical experience applying security skills, usually through internships
Use electives to enhance your technical skills or explore areas of interest
You may also choose to work with our
faculty members
on
research
, giving you in-depth knowledge on a specific topic and increasing your marketability.
Focus on technology
Cybersecurity relies on secure coding. In this degree, you'll have the opportunity to master networking, access control, cryptography, and forensics. You'll learn the latest tools for identifying and mitigating threats, and you'll be prepared to develop your own innovative methods for defeating malicious attackers.
We also offer a
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
and a
dual degree in secure computing and Russian and East European studies
.
International students
Many of our graduate students, as well as our faculty, in computer science come to Bloomington from outside the United States. Indiana University draws students from around the globe for other programs of study. The university, our department, and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering offer many types of support for you and our global community.
Learn about international student support
Learn about careers
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the cybersecurity program (the M.S. in Secure Computing) are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. Before 2018–19, the program was called the M.S. in Security Informatics. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If your start year is not listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Current student resources
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Advising
For guidance and assistance, contact Jean Camp at
ljcamp@iu.edu
or the Luddy Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
.
Take the next step
Apply now
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science