[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/accelerated-ms-secure-computing.html

Home
Programs
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
A five-year B.S./M.S. program
If you’re in our
B.S. in Computer Science
program, good news: you can apply for our accelerated master’s program and earn both the B.S. and a
Master of Science in Secure Computing
in just five years, increasing your expertise and your earning potential.
Why do the accelerated master’s?
Earn more, sooner
The average starting salary of an M.S. graduate is significantly higher than a B.S. grad.
Prepare to be promoted
When you’re hired, you’ll already have the advanced skills and degree you need to move up.
Save time and money
You’ll take up to 12 fewer credit hours than if you earned a B.S. and M.S. individually.
Build on your connections here
Learn even more from your IU mentors, and keep collaborating with your friends and partners.
Get the same valuable degree
All M.S. in Secure Computing students earn the same degree and diploma.
Why secure computing?
Every company needs people with cybersecurity skills. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects the job market for security professionals to grow 33 percent by 2030, and the field is among the most lucrative in IT.
Graduates of our program have been hired by a wide range of organizations, including the Amazon Web Services, AT&T, Eli Lilly, JP Morgan, Chase & Co., and KPMG.
How it works
The program is designed so that highly motivated students can earn a master’s degree in just one additional year. To do that, you’ll take at least one graduate-level course during your senior year, when you’re still classified as an undergraduate. You need to request permission from your
advisor
.
You’ll be classified as an undergraduate through the last semester you are enrolled in undergrad requirements. You have to complete at least 15 hours of coursework while classified as a grad student.
Undergraduate scholarships and funding
Transitioning to graduate student status may affect any undergrad scholarships or other funding you have.
Make sure to check on this and plan for it.
Costs
For the semesters you are in graduate status, you will pay the same tuition and fees as other M.S. students. Learn about
costs and financial aid
.
When you’ll get your degrees
You’ll receive your B.S. and M.S. simultaneously after you’ve completed both degrees.
Get started
Admission requirements
Earn at least 12 credits in computer science (CSCI) courses for the B.S. in Computer Science
Change your major to the B.S./M.S. program by talking to your advisor
Maintain a minimum grade point average of 3.0 in your major and program
Apply to the M.S. program during your senior year
We encourage you to enroll in your first graduate class before you apply, but it isn’t required for admission.
How to apply
Start by contacting your
advisor
, who can guide you through the process.
Apply by
November 1 of your senior year
.
You’ll complete the same application for admission that traditional M.S. students submit. We encourage letters of recommendation.
See the application instructions and apply
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
If your start year isn’t listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Take the next step
Apply now
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science