[Source URL]: https://cs.indiana.edu/programs/index.html

Home
Programs
Programs
Shape the future of computing
Computing will change dramatically over the course of your career. Our programs will teach you to adapt to, anticipate, and lead these changes.
Our programs span the breadth of computer science. Whichever program you choose, you’ll learn from
faculty
who are
advancing computing in inventive ways
—and will teach you to do the same.
Undergraduate programs
Make sure you note the difference between the B.S. in Computer Science—which is offered by the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering—and the B.A. in Computer Science, offered by the College of Arts and Sciences.
B.S. in Computer Science
The Bachelor of Science is the more technical of IU’s undergrad degrees in computer science. You’ll learn computing theory and how to use computers to solve problems, preparing you for a variety of in-demand jobs.
B.A. in Computer Science
The Bachelor of Arts is for students who also want to study the liberal arts through a second major or a minor from IU’s College of Arts and Sciences, which administers and confers this degree.
Minor in Computer Science
Add computer science to your skill set and open yourself to a wider range of career possibilities.
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Add onto your B.S. in Computer Science by earning a master’s degree in one additional year of study. You’ll increase your expertise and earning potential.
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Add one year of study to your B.S. in Computer Science to earn a master's to help you specialize in cybersecurity.
Graduate programs
M.S. in Computer Science
Master the field of computer science in this technical, highly marketable degree that prepares you for a job in Silicon Valley and beyond.
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
Build your cybersecurity skills in this one- to two-semester program, which can be completed on campus or online.
M.S. in Secure Computing (Technology Focused Master's in Cybersecurity)
Get ready to protect our technology and understand the people who would do harm. This degree offers a highly technical, multifaceted approach to cybersecurity.
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Combine cybersecurity skills with expertise in Russia and Eastern Europe.
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Learn to model, analyze, and manage massive amounts of biological data in a program that combines computing, informatics, biology, and statistics.
Ph.D. in Computer Science
Explore new frontiers in computing through theoretical and practical research. You will be prepared to work in industry, research labs, or academia.
Looking for a program you don’t see here?
The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering has more programs related to technology and information.
See Luddy undergraduate programs
See Luddy graduate programs
Partner programs
Many programs at IU Bloomington include computer science courses and/or faculty. They include:
Cognitive Science (Graduate Area Certificates)
Computational Linguistics
Cybersecurity Risk Management (M.S.)
Program in Pure and Applied Logic
Scientific Computing (Ph.D. minor)
Web Specialization (for bachelor’s students in The Media School)
Take the next step
Learn how to apply
Explore careers
B.S. in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Information Technology
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
M.S. in Computer Science
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Cybersecurity Master's Program (M.S. in Secure Computing)
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Ph.D. in Computer Science