[Source URL]: http://cts.admissions.indiana.edu/

Credit Transfer Service
Search by College or University Name
IU's Credit Transfer Service will show you how courses taken at other colleges and universities would transfer to IU Bloomington
It's automated and easy to use. You'll just need to enter relevant information as requested and you'll receive feedback showing how your credits would transfer to IU. The service is designed for all students - whether you're an incoming student or a current IU student wishing to take an IU equivalent course at another institution.
DISCLAIMER:
While we strive to provide accurate information, the articulation of courses between schools can change frequently. Accordingly, the information provided in the Office of Admissions' Credit Transfer Service is subject to change.
Search by College or University Name
Use this search if you'd like to transfer credit to IU from a specific college or university. For instance, if you took or will take classes at Indiana State University, you will search by Indiana State University to determine how your course work and credits would transfer to IU Bloomington.
Search Now
Search by IU Bloomington Course Name
Use this search if you would like to take a course at another institution and receive credit for a specific IU course. For example, if you are a current IU Bloomington student and would like to take W131 over the summer at a college closer to home, you will search by W131 to see where you could take an equivalent course.
Search Now
How to Use the Credit Transfer Service
The Credit Transfer Service allows you to search our transfer credit database in two different ways:
If you would like to transfer to IU Bloomington from another college or university and you want to see how your credits would transfer, you can search by the school from which you would like to transfer.
If you are a current IU Bloomington student and you would like to take a course at another institution to transfer back to IU, you can search by the IU course number for which you would like to earn credit.
Once you determine which search you would like to conduct, the Credit Transfer Service will walk you through a few simple steps. You'll ultimately have a "shopping cart of potential equivalents" that you can print and refer to in the future.
Note:
We include the articulations of more than 30,000 courses from more than 300 schools. However, not every school in the world or even in the U.S. is in the database, nor is every course available from those schools that are listed in the system. What is there represents the most commonly occurring articulations that we process. If the school, department, or course you need is not found, and you are a current IU student, you can use the
credit transfer agreement form
to request an individual articulation.
The directions for its use are included with the form. You must meet the deadlines published on the form to receive this advanced articulation.
Transcripts
If your transcript is delivered through Parchment, eScrip-SAFE, or another electronic transcript vendor, IU will download that transcript within 1-2 business days after receipt. If your school requires an email address for electronic delivery, please use
IUBLRecv@iu.edu
. If your school provides only paper transcripts, request that an official transcript be sent to the Office of Admissions, 940 E. Seventh Street, Bloomington, IN 47405-1106. We will evaluate the transcript and will update your permanent record with credit in those courses in which you earned a grade of "C" (2.0/4.0) or better. For any course in which a grade of "C-" or lower is received, no credit will be given. Transfer grades are not recorded in your IU GPA.
Official transcripts must be received by the Office of Admissions in a sealed college/university envelope. Transcripts previously opened will not be accepted for transfer credit.
International Coursework
Any student who has taken international coursework
should submit the Request for Review of Undistributed Credit via
https://atlas.iu.edu
for any courses taken at an international institution that are not listed on the Credit Transfer Service.
Information for Students Studying at Other IU Campuses
This Credit Transfer Service does not show how courses taken at other IU campuses apply toward an IU Bloomington degree. Please contact the school from which you are earning your IU Bloomington degree (for example, the College of Arts and Sciences or the School of Education) for more information.
More about Credit Transfer Service
CTS Policies
Conditions of Credit Transfer
Credit Transfer Agreement Form
For admitted and matriculated IU Bloomington undergraduates
Additional Support