[Source URL]: https://cyberrisk.iu.edu/apply/index.html

Home
Apply
Apply
Your goals are within reach. We can help you get there.
Our M.S. in Cybersecurity Risk Management program is designed for hardworking students with a passion for technology, intellectual property, privacy, and helping organizations of all sizes manage risk in an increasingly interconnected world.
Does this sound like you? Read on to learn how to apply, or
contact us
with questions.
Application deadlines
Fall:
June 15
Spring:
November 15
See application for international applicant deadlines.
Eligibility requirements
To be eligible to apply for the M.S. in Cybersecurity Risk Management program, you must:
Have a bachelor’s degree or the
U.S. equivalent
.
Have a minimum program GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) in your undergraduate coursework.  Applicants with unique academic circumstances should contact us to review this requirement.
Demonstrate proficiency in the English language. If English is not your native language, you must earn a minimum score of 96 (internet-based) or 600 (paper-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL).  We will also accept Duolingo (minimum score 120) and IELTS (minimum score Band 7.0).  All exams must have been taken within the last two years.
Application process
To apply for admission to IU Bloomington, you must complete the University Graduate School’s online application and pay an application fee.
If you’re an international applicant, visit the
Office of International Services
for more information about supporting documentation requirements as well as Atlas login information.
Start your application
Go to the
Graduate and Professional Admissions Application
. If it is your first time using the Indiana University Graduate CAS Application, you will need to "Create an Account" to get started.  After you create an account, you will "Add Program" to your application.
Choose your intended academic plan and admit term
On the "Add Program" page, select Cybersecurity Risk Management MS Hybrid if you plan to take at least six credits on campus or Cybersecurity Risk Management MS Online if you plan to take only online courses.  While selecting the hybrid or online format, you will also select the admit term.
Provide requested details
Along with personal and academic history information, you must include with your application:
Your resume.
Unofficial transcript(s). Upload an unofficial transcript for each institution you attended by clicking the "Upload Transcript" button within the "Academic History" section of the online application. International applicants must upload a scan or photocopy of academic records formally issued by their institution(s). If the original is not in English, also include a literal, line-by-line translation.  Official transcripts are only needed after admission to the Program.
A 1–2 page personal statement. This is an opportunity for you to present your academic and career direction and goals. Be sure to answer the question asked on the application. Make a case for why you will fit into our program and what you can contribute, rather than what you hope to receive.
Names and contact information for three people who will write letters of recommendation for you. You will send requests to your recommenders through the online application form. Be aware that it can take a long time for someone to complete a recommendation, and you may need to remind them of their commitment.
Your GRE/GMAT/LSAT scores, if you have them at time of admission and would like them included with your application.
Your English proficiency exam scores, if your native language is not English.
Submit your supplemental information
After you submit your application, you may need to submit the following:
Request your English proficiency score (international applicants)
If your native language is not English, you must submit English proficiency exam scores.  This is typically the TOEFL (minimum score internet-based: 96; paper-based: 600).  However, we also accept
Duolingo
(minimum score 120) and IELTS (minimum score Band 7.0).  All exams must have been taken within the last two years.
Request that ETS send your
TOEFL score
(or
IELTS score
) to Indiana University Bloomington’s school code: 1324.
You might want to review additional application information in our
Cybersecurity Community
, a place where you can engage with other prospective and current students as well as alumni of the Program.
Submit your official GRE, GMAT, or LSAT scores, if desired
Submit your GRE or GMAT scores if you want them included with your application.
IU Bloomington’s school codes
Submit your
GRE scores
to 001324.
Submit your
GMAT scores
to 8ZG-41-03.
Learn more about the University Graduate School
Apply now
Learn more about studying at IU Bloomington
Explore cybersecurity programs
Learn about financial aid