[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/apply/index.html

Home
How to Apply
How to Apply
Your career as a data specialist awaits
Interested in our residential program?
Learn more about how to
apply
.
Request information
Data Science is a composition of various domain expertise for the interpretation and extractions of meaningful insights throughout the data life-cycle. Luddy’s Data Science online programs will provide a methodical exploration of Data Science with many of the coursework focusing on big data, computer science, machine learning, cloud computing, and visualization. In turn, students will develop practical skills to generate insights from using tools and methods necessary for understanding critical parts of data-driven decision making for strategic planning in all areas of industry.
Want to know more or ask specific questions?
The Luddy Office of Online Education will host live Q&A sessions on the following dates. Drop-in when you are available for a one-on-one meeting. Please note, there may be a short wait time in the Zoom waiting room if there is a queue.
All sessions 12:00pm-2:00pm (drop in) via
Zoom
March 24, 2025
March 31, 2025
April 7, 2025
April 14, 2025
April 21, 2025
April 28, 2025
May 5, 2025
May 12, 2025
May 19, 2025
Schedule a Zoom meeting with the Graduate Manager
Apply now
Review our application
deadlines
Prepare your
application materials
Apply with the
Indiana University Graduate CAS
Eligibility
We embrace all academic and professional experiences; however, Indiana University still requires students to have:
earned a
4-year bachelor's degree
or its
equivalent
received a ~
3.0 cumulative GPA
from all attended institutions
obtained
prerequisite requirements
requirements located below
Additionally - if you already hold a master’s or doctoral degree from the
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
, and the requirements of that degree are equivalent to the M.S. in Data Science, you are not eligible to apply to our program.
International academic records
Learn more about
equivalent degrees for graduate students
at the
IU Office of International Students
.
Your academic background
It's not a prerequisite to have an academic background in data or computer science to find success in our online programs. However, all applicants must possess the following for consideration:
Mathematical knowledge like linear algebra, calculus, and/or probability
Object-oriented programming knowledge in C/C++, Python and/or R, with the ability to pick up other programming languages as needed.
Communication and critical thinking skills
If you need help developing any of these skills, we've compiled a helpful list of
resources
to make preparation easier.
Academic honesty
It is the responsibility of the applicant to act with honesty and integrity and be responsible and accountable for all actions throughout and after the admissions process. Once you apply, you are formally agreeing to all deadlines and instructions set by the Data Science Program.
If at any time it is discovered that false information, omissions, or misstatements are made on the application, your consideration may be revoked.
Admissions deadlines
TheLuddy Office of Online Education operates on an admissions deadline system. This means the date that your application becomes complete - not when submitted - determines your consideration and admissions decision.
For the Data Science online programs, we admit students twice a year for August or January starts. We do not offer admissions for Summer (May) start.
DS Online MS and CERT deadline dates
Application Cycles
Application Opens
Application Closes
Fall
February 1
June 1
Spring
August 1
November 1
To expedite admissions decisions, applicants are encouraged to submit their application and all supporting materials as early as possible. We suggest submitting your application
at least 2 weeks
before the final deadline to ensure all necessary documentation is attached.
Submitting your application
The Online Data Science program requires a completed
Indiana University Graduate CASS application
submission for admissions consideration. The following documents should all be included in your application. Once a document has been uploaded and submitted, you will not be able to modify the uploaded document.
NOTE:
All documentation, including
irreplaceable transcripts and degrees
, becomes the
property
of Indiana University.
We are not at liberty to return these documents since they must be retained for the duration of your tenure in our program
. We recommend avoid sending irreplaceable documents. (See the Retention Policy below for more information).
Application requirements
CV/resume
Provide a one to two-page resume (PDF) highlighting your employment history, education completed, job titles, and skills possessed in each role. The writing should be concise, well-constructed, and factually accurate.
Personal statement
Provide a brief one to two-page essay articulating who you are, why you are applying, what makes you a good candidate for our program, and your professional goals post completion. This is your opportunity to explain, rather than simply say. Be specific, use distinct examples, highlight your unique skills.
Recommendation
Provide the name and email address of one academic and/or professional contact who can serve as your reference. Select an individual who you know well and can attest to your readiness for our online program. You are welcome to provide contact details for other individuals whom would provide value to your application.
Academic records
Upload electronic copies (scans) of your transcript(s) and/or mark sheets and degree certification(s) (diploma) from
any outside institution not affiliated with Indiana University
. This includes all
undergraduate
,
graduate
,
and/or pending coursework
where you have earned more than 5 credit hours from the credit granting institution
.
Note:
If you attended
Indiana University
or one of its affiliated campuses, our office can obtain your transcript on your behalf
.
Each institutional transcript should be uploaded as a single PDF and include the following:
Institution name (official logo - not typed or handwritten by the applicant)
Title of courses and examinations completed
Course/exam grades
Dates of attendance
Date degree or diploma was earned (awarded)
For international records, this may be in the form of a scanned copy of your degree certificate (diploma).
Academic records uploaded on behalf of an application are deemed unofficial and accepted for admissions consideration only. If admitted and you elect to attend, official (original) academic records are required per the instructions set by the Luddy Office of Online Education at the time of admissions.
International Academic Records:
Because it can take a substantial amount of time to obtain records from schools outside the United States, please keep legible photocopies of your original international transcripts and degrees. Please contact the Office of International Services (OIS) with any questions at
ois@iu.edu
.
Our data retention policy
Document retention policy
Any form of documentation or recorded information - regardless of physical characteristics - created, received, recorded, or legally submitted in the course of study becomes the property of Indiana University. This means documentation is non-returnable, and will not be forwarded, copied, or released to you or a third party.
We recommend that you avoid sending irreplaceable documents.
We do encourage you to make photocopies of your original academic records and send them to your home university.
Ask your home university to:
Verify that the photocopies are consistent with their records
Attest that the copies are true photocopies and stamp them with an official university stamp
Put the attested, stamped photocopies in sealed envelopes endorsed by the registrar
Mail the sealed, endorsed envelopes directly to the appropriate graduate office
Indiana University requires that university records, as defined herein, regardless of format, be retained for specific periods of time in accordance with legal or other institutional requirements, or for historical value. The university has designated official repositories to manage the retention of these records according to procedures outlined below, wherein documents are securely destroyed after three years of the last date of enrollment.
Learn more about the
records retention guidelines
.
Note:
All credentials are retained indefinitely throughout a student's academic career with the Luddy Office of Online Education. Excluded from this policy are individuals who reserve the right to request their irreplaceable; original documents be verified upon arrival on campus for same-day verification. Same-day verification is only awarded to those who submit their irreplaceable and official academic records to the Office of International Services (OIS) in-person.
International documentation return policy
International documentation is nonreturnable, unless deemed irreplaceable. An irreplaceable document is defined by Indiana University as:
“A document that can only be issued once in a lifetime per person by a ministry of education (or other educational authority) or a document where another official copy cannot be obtained.”
International documentation, as deemed irreplaceable by the
Office of International Services
(OIS), may be returned after the conferral of your degree or certificate at your sole request. Indiana University will not voluntarily return your documentation upon degree conferral.
The Data Science Graduate Office will return materials if all of the below is followed:
You’ve completed all program requirements and a degree or certificate was conferred
You have submitted the Return of Irreplaceable Documents Request form and “Agreed” to all terms and conditions
Please contact the Data Science Graduate Office at
datasci@indiana.edu
for the form
You’ve provided sufficient evidence of identification in the form of an official photo (license) and IU identification number for an in-person pickup or mail return
NOTE:
Any documents requested to be returned through mail, will be at your expense. The Data Science Graduate Office is not reliable for any damages that should occur prior, during, or after the delivery of the documents.
Your tomorrow starts now
Begin your online application
Preparatory Resources