[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/residential/managerial-data-science-track.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Residential
Managerial Data Science Track
Managerial Data Science Track
This track trains students
to become data science project and program managers. Leading a data science team requires soft skills, mainly in the areas of communication, general management techniques, and knowledge of a specific business domain.
This track combines advanced knowledge in database systems and programming languages with strong interpersonal and project management skills.
We encourage students to have some work experience and technical skills related to data science.
Data Science Essentials
If you don’t have a STEM background, consider taking
Data Science Essentials
: a self-paced package of online coursework that can help you prepare for the successful completion of the M.S. in Data Science degree.
Degree requirements
This track requires a set of courses with 30 credit hours. Students in this track will complete:
9
credits – Core MS in Data Science courses
12
credits - Information and Library Science courses
3
credit hours - Data Science Electives
6
credits - Electives
Review the full list of your degree requirements
All data science course requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin, or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact us
to request approval.
2023–24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Applied Data Science Track
Big Data Systems Track
Computational and Analytical Track
Managerial Data Science Track
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor