[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/residential/index.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science — Residential
An immersive education on a world-renowned campus
Our
top-ranked
residential M.S. in Data Science program is located on the
IU Bloomington campus
and attracts aspiring data science professionals from around the globe.
As a student here you’ll have access to IU’s esteemed
faculty
and
research
facilities. You’ll build lifelong connections, develop an interdisciplinary approach to data science, and work collaboratively with scholars and experts across campus to solve some of the day’s biggest questions.
#8 Best master's in Data Science Program, Fortune Education
Interested in applying?
Find out
how to apply
, and then submit your
graduate application
.
Coursework that prepares you for a lifelong career
To hone your expertise as a data professional, your coursework will be grounded in the real-world challenges that local and global communities, organizations, and citizens face on a daily basis.
Our Data Science program offers sets of core competencies in multiple areas—including programming, statistics, data analytics, machine learning, data wrangling, data visualization, communication, business foundations, and ethics—that increase their marketability in the industry.
A focus on foundational knowledge will help lay the groundwork for a lifelong career trajectory, while plenty of hands-on training via research projects, interdisciplinary collaboration, and internship work will give you a competitive edge in today's job market.
Let's stay in touch!
We want to hear from you! The Luddy School is here to answer any questions you may have, and we’re more than happy to guide you down your path to tomorrow.
Hellen Jiang
M.S. in Data Science—Residential
Today
Collaborating with the IU School of Medicine to design and implement a machine-learning pipeline that helps prevent unnecessary hospitalizations
Tomorrow
Developing machine-learning algorithms that help radiology, cardiology, and pathology experts diagnose patients accurately and in less time
Choose a track to hone your skills
To graduate, you’ll complete 30 graduate-level credit hours and choose from four distinct learning tracks in order to develop career-specific expertise.
The tracks were designed with flexibility in mind; we encourage you to choose coursework specific to your goals.
Applied Data Science
Big Data Systems
Computational and Analytical
Managerial Data Science
This program is STEM eligible
Because the Data Science Program is an interdisciplinary and applied program, it is
STEM eligible
via the U.S. Department of Education.
Review the full list of your degree requirements
All data science course requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin, or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact us
to request approval.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2023–24 MS in Data Science and 4 + 1 bulletin
2023–24 MS Data Science-Online and 4+1 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
Special research opportunities for residential masters students
Indiana Genomics Research Training Program
Image Courtesy of the Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
The INGEN4DS provides support for master’s degree students in data science-related programs to conduct genomics research that will prepare them to use powerful computational and statistical methods to decode the functional information hidden in DNA sequences.
Discover more about INGEN4DS
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Applied Data Science Track
Big Data Systems Track
Computational and Analytical Track
Managerial Data Science Track
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor