[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/

Improve the way the world uses data
Business and politics. Agriculture and education. Science and entertainment. Each of these industries are generating massive amounts of data at an unprecedented rate. The question is: what can be done with it?
As a student of the Data Science Program, you’ll prepare to become the data professional our evolving world needs: a holistically trained expert with the vision and skills to use data to solve problems, unite communities, prevent disasters, transform industries, and most importantly, improve lives.
We see what tomorrow can be, and we shape it every day.
Learn how to apply
Review our admissions requirements, stay ahead of important deadlines, and more.
Select a program
Our bachelor's, master's, and online certificate programs provide options for nearly every student.
Discover our research
Learn about the wide-ranging research interests of our students and faculty.
we Predict
we Advance
we Develop
we Present
we Model
we Optimize
we Interpret
we Improve
we Structure
we Imagine
we Discover
we Analyze
we Calculate
we Research
we see
We see
tomorrow
Take your career to the next level
Big data continues to grow exponentially, and experts who can collect, organize, and analyze the avalanche of data are among the most sought-after assets in technology. Every person on Earth generated more than 1.7MB of data per second in 2020, and 95 percent of businesses cite a need to manage data in their business. Focused on both theory and application, our
programs
are designed to help you advance your career in an ever-changing market—now, and in the future.
Today our graduates go on to make a big impact at companies likes Amazon, GoPro, Microsoft, TikTok, and Wayfair in a variety of roles, including as data scientists/analysts/engineers, business intelligence analysts, programmers, software developers, and solutions architects.
Learn more about our career prep opportunities
Apurupa Vemula
M.S. in Data Science
Today
Developing a visualization dashboard for the Reimagine Appalachia Story Project while also working as a data analyst.
Tomorrow
Creating data-driven solutions and exploring the world of business intelligence using hands-on knowledge earned at Luddy and in private industry.
Learn more about our M.S. degrees
2022 Career Outcome Data
#3
career in America based on earning potential, Glassdoor.com
$127,688
Average full-time starting salary for our M.S. graduates
97%
Of our M.S. graduates secured employment or continued education within 12 months of graduation
Luddy in the news
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Luddy School study to help women achieve peak athletic performance
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
See more news
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application