[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/residential/computational-analytical-track.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Residential
Computational and Analytical Track
Computational and Analytical Track
Take your skills to the next level
The Computational and Analytical track offers training in both data science methods and their application in different domains. Students with a strong computer science background who wish to dive deeper into the mechanics of data science methodologies may wish to pursue a more rigorous curriculum. If you’ve got a strong STEM background and are ready to advance your career as a data specialist, the residential M.S. in Data Science computational and analytical track is for you.
Our expert
faculty
will guide you through the mechanics of data science tactics and methodologies, placing strong emphasis on technological theory, engineering, and statistics.
Academic background
To enroll in this track, special prerequisites apply. Your test scores and transcripts must show that you’ve earned the following:
Optional GRE score (quantitative) of 160 or higher
A grade of B or higher in college calculus I and II
A grade of B or higher in a college-level algorithms or data structure course
A grade of B or higher in two college-level programming courses
Degree requirements
You’ll be required to take:
15
core credits
15
electives
Though the capstone project is optional, many students choose to pursue it to bolster their resume and gain additional career-focused experience.
Build a curriculum that works for you
Of all our program options, this track offers the greatest flexibility.
While your core requirements focus on the foundations of data science (data systems, algorithms, data analytics, and big data infrastructure), a broad range of
elective courses
will allow you to customize your degree based on your career goals.
Course electives include topics such as:
Symbolic models of machine learning
High performance computing
Elements of artificial intelligence
Advanced database concepts
Data semantics
Data visualization
Applied linear models
Information architecture for the web
Review the full list of your degree requirements
All data science course requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin, or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact us
to request approval.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2023–24 MS in Data Science and 4 + 1 bulletin
2023–24 MS Data Science-Online and 4+1 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Applied Data Science Track
Big Data Systems Track
Computational and Analytical Track
Managerial Data Science Track
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor