[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/residential/applied-track.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Residential
Applied Data Science Track
Applied Data Science Track
Become the data expert employers are looking for
Curating, cleaning, and examining data. Using data to spot knowledge gaps, predict outcomes, and identify opportunities. Working across disciplines and sharing valuable insights with project stakeholders.
These are the hallmark skills of a today’s data professional—and you can expect to master each of them through from the residential M.S. in Data Science applied data science track.
Data Science Essentials
If you don’t have a STEM background, consider taking
Data Science Essentials
: a self-paced package of online coursework that can help you prepare for the successful completion of the M.S. in Data Science degree.
Academic background and degree requirements
The Applied Data Science Track focuses on foundational data science methods and is most suitable for students with computer science, statistics, or mathematics background.
You’ll be required to take:
12
core credits
6
domain credits
3
credits towards a capstone project
9
electives
Customize your experience based on your goals
In addition to completing your core requirements and a capstone project, you’ll choose to focus on one of
six different domain areas
and complete two courses within that specific domain:
Augmented and Virtual Reality
Data security and privacy
Economic Data Analytics
Health and Biomedical
Human robot interaction
Social data science
A broad range of
elective courses
provide further opportunity to customize your degree.
Augmentedand Virtual Reality
INFO-I 590 Topic in Informatics
Topic: Artificial Life in Virtual Reality
Topic: Building Virtual Worlds
Topic: Creating Virtual Assets
Topic: Introduction to Virtual Reality
Data Security and Privacy
INFO-I 520 Security for Networked Systems
INFO-I 525 Organizational Informatics and Economics of Security
INFO-I 533 Systems and Protocol Security and Information Assurance
INFO-I 538 Introduction to Cryptography
Economic Data Analytics
ECON-M 504 Econometrics I
ECON-M 511 Microeconomic Theory II
ECON-M 514 Econometrics II
ECON-M 518 Econometrics: Big Data
ECON-M 524 Financial Econometrics
Health and Biomedical Data Science
INFO-I 507 Introduction to Health Informatics
INFO-I 519 Introduction to Bioinformatics
INFO-I 529 Machine Learning in Bioinformatics
Human Robotic Interaction
CSCI-B 657 Computer Vision
ENGR-E 599 Topics in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Topic: Autonomous Robotics
INFO-I 513 Usable Artificial Intelligence
INFO-I 527 Mobile and Pervasive Design
INFO-I 540 Human Robot Interaction
INFO-I 542 Foundations of HCI
Social Data Science
ENGR-E 583 Information Visualization (may be counted only once)
ILS-Z 604 Topics in Library and Information Science
Topic: Music Data Mining
ILS-Z 639 Social Media Mining
INFO-I 513 Usable ArtificialIntelligence
INFO-I 590 Topics in Informatics
Topic: Data Visualization (may be counted only once)
INFO-I 606 Network Science (may be counted only once)
Review the full list of your degree requirements
All data science course requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin, or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact us
to request approval.
2023–24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Applied Data Science Track
Big Data Systems Track
Computational and Analytical Track
Managerial Data Science Track
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor