[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/contact/profile/index.html?Patrick_Shih

Home
Contact
profile
profile
Patrick C Shih
Director of Graduate Studies for Data Science
Associate Professor of Informatics
Animal Computer Interaction Track Director
Email:
patshih@iu.edu
Phone:
(812) 856-4022
Office:
Myles Brand Hall | Room:
E259
Website:
https://patshih.luddy.indiana.edu
Education
Ph.D. in Information and Computer Science at University of California, Irvine, 2011
M.S. in Information Networking at Carnegie Mellon University, 2005
B.S. in Computer Science and Engineering at University of California, Los Angeles, 2003
Courses Taught at Luddy
CSCI-P 535 Pervasive Computing
ILS-Z 516 Human-Computer Interaction
ILS-Z 604 Social Computing and Computer-Supported Cooperative Work
INFO-I 400 & 590 Topics in Informatics: Usable Artificial Intelligence
INFO-I 400 & 590 Topics in Informatics: Seminar in Animal-Computer Interaction
INFO-I 413 & 513 Usable Artificial Intelligence
INFO-I 527 Mobile and Pervasive Design
UNIV 184 Bridge to Informatics (DePauw University)
Biography
I am an Associate Professor of Informatics in the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering at Indiana University Bloomington. I'm an ACM Senior Member (top 25% of ACM), and I am a recipient of the NSF CAREER award. I direct the Societal Computing Lab (SoCo Lab). I'm the Director of Graduate Studies for Data Science, and I'm also the Co-Director of the Animal Informatics MS and PhD track and the BS Cognate, BS Minor, and PhD Minor in Animal-Computer Interaction. I'm a core faculty of the Health Informatics PhD track.
My research focuses on how to better support health and wellbeing, specifically that of underserved and vulnerable populations, through the design, development, and evaluation of sociotechnical systems and community-based mechanisms. I also design technologies to amplify human and animal capabilities in animal-assisted interventions, improve animal welfare, and cultivate empathy for others.
Prior to joining IUB, I was a Research Associate and Lecturer in the College of Information Sciences and Technology at Penn State. I received my Ph.D. in Information and Computer Science from UC Irvine, where I was a Chancellor's Fellow, M.S. in Information Networking from Carnegie Mellon University, and B.S. in Computer Science and Engineering from UCLA. I have also worked at Microsoft Research and IBM Research.
Centers
Center for Rural Engagement (CRE)
Center for the Integrative Study of Animal Behavior (CISAB)
Center of Excellence for Women in Technology (CEWiT)
Crisis Technologies Innovation Lab (CTIL)
Indiana University Network Science Institute (IUNI)
Institute for Digital Humanities (IDAH)
Institute for Software Research (ISR, UC Irvine)
Societal Computing Lab (SoCo Lab)
Update your profile
People Directory
Request Information