[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/4-plus-1-ms-online/index.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Add a M.S. in Data Science to your bachelor’s degree in just one year
Get the best of both worlds: finish your undergraduate degree on-campus in four years, then add an M.S. in data science-online in as little as one additional year.
Stand out in the career search with an advanced degree in data science—one of the hottest career fields in the world. If you are an undergraduate student with a major, minor, or specialization in data science, you can earn a master’s degree in just one additional year.
The 4+1 program saves you time and money. You’ll take up to nine fewer credit hours than if you earned a B.S. and M.S. separately. And you’ll be enrolled in some graduate courses while paying the undergraduate rate.
How it works
The program is designed so that highly motivated students can earn a master’s degree in just one additional year online. To do that, you’ll take at least one graduate-level course during your senior year, when you’re still classified as an undergraduate. You need to request permission from your advisor.
You’ll be classified as an undergraduate through the last semester you are enrolled in undergrad requirements. You have to complete at least 21 hours of coursework while classified as a grad student.
Costs
For the semesters you are in graduate status, you will pay the same tuition and fees as other M.S. students.
Learn about costs and financial aid
Undergraduate scholarships and funding
Transitioning to graduate student status may affect any undergrad scholarships or other funding you have. Make sure to check on this and plan for it.
When you’ll get your degrees
Degrees are awarded separately as the degree requirements have been met for each degree.
Program overview
Academic requirements
Students in this program are required to complete six credit hours of core coursework that covers three credit hours of Statistical Methods, three credit hours of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, and three credit hours of capstone project. The 12 remaining credit hours include six credit hours of a data science domain and six credit hours of electives to best suite your individual interests, needs, and overall career goals.
Statistical Methods (3 credit hours)
Select one course from the following:
SPEA-V 506 Statistical Analysis for Effective Decision-Making
STAT-S 520 Introduction to Statistics
Higher level statistics course may be taken with departmental approval
Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence (3 credit hours)
Select one course from the following:
CSCI-B 551 Elements of Artificial Intelligence
CSCI-P 556 Applied Machine Learning
ENGR-E 511 Machine Learning for Signal Processing
ENGR-E 533 Deep Learning Systems (may be counted only once)
Data Science Domain (6 credit hours)
Students must select one of the following domains and complete two courses in that domain.
Data Analytics and Visualization
DSCI-D 532 Applied Database Technologies
DSCI-D 590 Topics in Data Science
Topic: Optimization and Simulation for Business Analytics
Topic: Data Visualization
ENGR-E 534 Big Data Applications
ENGR-E 583 Information Visualization
ILS-Z 534 Search
INFO-I 535 Management, Access, and Use of Big and Complex Data
INFO-I 606 Network Science
Intelligent Systems Engineering
ENGR-E 516 Engineering Cloud Computing
ENGR-E 517 High Performance Computing
ENGR-E 533 Deep Learning Systems (may be counted only once)
Cybersecurity
INFO-I 520 Security in Networked Systems
INFO-I 525 Organizational Informatics and Economics of Security
INFO-I 533 Systems and Protocol Security and Information Assurance
Capstone Project (3 credit hours)
Students will be required to work on a project that applies the knowledge and skills learned to solve real-world problems for a company, organization, or individual. This may be fulfilled through a capstone course, an internship, or an independent study project. The aim of this requirement is to demonstrate students' capabilities to prospective employers and inspire innovation.
DSCI-D 590 Topics in Data Science
Topic: Faculty Assistance in Data Science
DSCI-D 592 Data Science in Practice
DSCI-D 699 Independent Study in Data Science
Electives (6 credit hours)
The remaining credit hours are selected from additional data science-related course offerings within the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering. Students may not earn credit for courses taken to fulfill the core or capstone requirements.
CSCI-B 505 Applied Algorithms
CSCI-B 561 Advanced Database Concepts
CSCI-B 657 Computer Vision
DSCI-D 590 Topics in Data Science
Topic: Applied Data Science
Topic: Data Science On-Ramp *
Topic: Introduction to NLP for Data Science
Topic: Introduction to Python Programming
Topic: Time Series Analysis
DSCI-D 591 Graduate Internship **
INFO-I 529 Machine Learning in Bioinformatics
ILS-Z 639 Social Media Mining
SPCN-P 507 Data Analysis and Modeling for Public Affairs
STAT-S 580 Introduction to Regression Models and Nonparametrics
** No more than three (3) credit hours of DSCI-D 590, Data Science On-Ramp, may be earned
* No more than three (3) credit hours of DSCI-D 591 may be earned
Sample degree map
This sample degree map shows a path a typical student can take after completing the 120 credits required for an undergraduate degree.
Sample degree map
Semester
Classes
Credits
Summer
Elective
3 Credits
Fall
2 Core
1 Domain
1 Elective
9 Credits
Spring
1 Core
1 Domain
1 Elective
Capstone
9 Credits
Ready to get started?
Talk to your advisor as early as possible to make sure you’re on the right path.
You can apply to the program after you complete 12 credit hours towards a data science major, minor, or specialization.
Maintain a minimum grade point average of 3.0 in your major and program.
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor