[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/4-plus-1-ms-residential/index.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Add a M.S. in Data Science to your bachelor’s degree in just one year
Stand out in the career search with an advanced degree in data science—one of the hottest career fields in the world. If you are an undergraduate student with a major, minor, or specialization in data science, you can earn a master’s degree in just one additional year.
The 4+1 program saves you time and money. You’ll take up to nine fewer credit hours than if you earned a B.S. and M.S. separately. And you’ll be enrolled in some graduate courses while paying the undergraduate rate.
How it works
The program is designed so that highly motivated students can earn a master’s degree in just one additional year. To do that, you’ll take at least one graduate-level course during your senior year, when you’re still classified as an undergraduate. You need to request permission from your advisor.
You’ll be classified as an undergraduate through the last semester you are enrolled in undergrad requirements. You have to complete at least 21 hours of coursework while classified as a grad student.
Costs
For the semesters you are in graduate status, you will pay the same tuition and fees as other M.S. students.
Learn about costs and financial aid
Undergraduate scholarships and funding
Transitioning to graduate student status may affect any undergrad scholarships or other funding you have. Make sure to check on this and plan for it.
When you’ll get your degrees
Degrees are awarded separately as the degree requirements have been met for each degree.
Program overview
Academic requirements
Students in this program are required to complete 12 credit hours of core coursework that covers three credit hours of Statistical Methods, three credit hours of Data Management and Engineering, three credit hours of Machine Learning, Data Mining, and Text Mining, and three credit hours of capstone project. The nine remaining credit hours are for electives to best suite your individual interests, needs, and overall career goals.
Statistical Methods (3 credit hours)
Select one course from the following:
SPEA-V 506 Statistical Analysis for Effective Decision-Making
STAT-S 520 Introduction to Statistics
Higher level statistics course may be taken with departmental approval
Data Management and Engineering (3 credit hours)
Select one course from the following:
CSCI-B 561 Advanced Database Concepts
ENGR-E 516 Engineering Cloud Computing
INFO-I 535 Management, Access, and Use of Big and Complex Data
DSCI-D 532 Applied Database Technologies
Machine Learning, Data Mining, and Text Mining (3 credit hours)
Select one course from the following:
CSCI-B 551 Elements of Artificial Intelligence
CSCI-B 555 Machine Learning
CSCI-B 565 Data Mining
CSCI-B 657 Computer Vision
CSCI-P 556 Applied Machine Learning
ENGR-E 511 Machine Learning for Signal Processing
ILS-Z 534 Search
INFO-I 513 Usable Artificial Intelligence
INFO-I 606 Network Science
Capstone Project (3 credit hours)
Students will be required to work on a project that applies the knowledge and skills learned to solve real-world problems for a company, organization, or individual. This may be fulfilled through a capstone course, an internship, or an independent study project. The aim of this requirement is to demonstrate students' capabilities to prospective employers and inspire innovation.
DSCI-D 590 Topics in Data Science
Topic: Faculty Assistance in Data Science
DSCI-D 591 Graduate Internship
DSCI-D 592 Data Science in Practice
DSCI-D 699 Independent Study in Data Science
ILS-Z 690 Capstone in Information Architecture
INFO-I 590 Topics in Informatics
Topic: Luddy Artificial Intelligence Development and Experience Laboratory
Electives (9 credit hours)
The remaining nine credit hours are selected from additional data science-related course offerings within the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering. Students may not earn credit for courses taken to fulfill the core or capstone requirements.
No more than three (3) credit hours of DSCI-D 591 may be earned
No more than three (3) credit hours of DSCI-D 590, Data Science On-Ramp, may be earned
Sample degree map
This sample degree map shows a path a typical student can take after completing the 120 credits required for an undergraduate degree.
Sample degree map
Semester
Elective
Credits
Summer
Elective
3 Credits
Fall
2 Core
1 Elective
9 Credits
Spring
1 Core
1 Elective
Capstone
9 Credits
Ready to get started?
Talk to your advisor as early as possible to make sure you’re on the right path.
You can apply to the program after you complete 12 credit hours towards a data science major, minor, or specialization.
Maintain a minimum grade point average of 3.0 in your major and program.
Apply now
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor