[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/residential/big-data-systems-track.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Residential
Big Data Systems Track
Big Data Systems Track
This track focuses on
the development/engineering of software systems for collecting/managing/mining massive data. It is most suitable for students with computer science or engineering backgrounds. This track is more hands-on and project-based than other DS tracks. Our Big Data Systems track covers a wide variety of systems from building a backbone data processing system to providing practical yet powerful computing solutions to domain-specific problems, allowing students to obtain a holistic view of the big data applications.
Data Science Essentials
If you don’t have a STEM background, consider taking
Data Science Essentials
: a self-paced package of online coursework that can help you prepare for the successful completion of the M.S. in Data Science degree.
Academic background and degree requirements
Students in this program need a solid foundation in STEM course work, specifically, the following:
Proficient level of programming experience in C, Java or Python;
Familiarity with R and MATLAB is useful; and
Calculus I and II and basic understanding of probability and elements of discrete math.
Students who do not meet the above prerequisites will be conditionally accepted pending the passing grade for our summer camp, which will cover C, Java, R, Python, a basic understanding of probability, and elements of discrete math.
Degree requirements
You’ll be required to take:
21
core credits
9
elective credits
A course in data ethics or a major project is highly encouraged, but not required.
The Big Data Systems track requires a set of core courses that cover: Statistical Methods, AI and Machine Learning, Big Data, Cloud Computing, and Visualization, and Core Engineering. Students may choose electives based on their interests, needs, and career goals. Course electives may include symbolic models of machine learning; high performance computing; elements of artificial intelligence; advanced database concepts; data semantics; data visualization; applied linear models; information architecture for the web; etc.
Review the full list of your degree requirements
All data science course requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin, or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact us
to request approval.
2023–24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
Your tomorrow starts now
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Applied Data Science Track
Big Data Systems Track
Computational and Analytical Track
Managerial Data Science Track
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor