[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/ms-data-science-online/index.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Online
Master of Science — Online
Earn your master’s without giving up your day job
If you’re a working professional, the online Master of Science (M.S.) in Data Science degree program at IU Bloomington’s Luddy School is the solution to wanting to advance your career and increase your earning potential but not having the option to return to school full-time.
This data science master’s program was developed to provide convenience and flexibility to midcareer data science professionals. You’ll gain deep, specialized knowledge on the topic of your choice in a format that’s accessible and intuitive.
Interested in applying?
Find out
how to apply
, and then submit your
online graduate application
by the deadlines.
Admission deadlines:
Fall semester:
June 1
Spring semester:
November 1
Want a sneak peek?
See what it's like to be a Luddy online student and experience real graduate courses through our
Luddy Test Drive
.
Program Overview
The same faculty, the same coursework—but online
The data science material you’ll cover in your online master’s degree is the same coursework our
residential M.S.
students complete, and it’s led by the same expert
faculty
.
In the online data science master’s, lectures are recorded and posted each week for you to watch at your convenience. Faculty also host virtual office hours, group chats, and guided discussions to ensure your learning is interactive and that the content keeps you engaged and connected.
I'm most surprised by how engaging the faculty are online. They’re as accessible and approachable as you would expect in a residential setting.
KC Munnings, M.S. in Data Science—Online
Degree requirements
Before applying to the online M.S. in Data Science program, you should have a basic understanding of the programming languages Python and R, in addition to math and probability.
If you need assistance developing or refining your mathematical or programming skills in addition to your academic background, please refer to our
preparatory resources
for a detailed list of self-study recommendations.
To earn the online master’s in data science, you’ll complete 30 graduate-level credits. Degree requirements include:
6
core credits
6
domain area credits
3
capstone project credits
15
electives
All degree requirements for the online master’s in data science program are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin year that best represents the year you started or will start your program.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2023–24 MS in Data Science and 4 + 1 bulletin
2023–24 MS Data Science-Online and 4+1 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact the data science program
to request approval.
Customize your online data science degree based on your goals
In addition to the core requirements, the online master's in data science program incorporates an independent capstone project, free elective credits, and the ability to focus your degree in a specialized area of the field.
You’ll choose to focus your online M.S. in Data Science in one of
three domain areas
:
Data analytics and visualization
Intelligent systems engineering
Cybersecurity
A broad range of
elective courses
provides further opportunities to customize your degree and learn more about topics such as machine learning in bioinformatics, social media mining, data analysis in public affairs, and more.
Data Science research and career-driven capstone
An ideal way to demonstrate your data science skills to future employers is to have experience working on actual projects with real-world clients.
The built-in capstone course requirement will allow you to put into practice what you’ve learned through creating a final project or by conducting a deep dive into an independent data science research initiative.
Learn more about
Luddy’s robust data science research approach
and the new
Faculty Assistance in Data Science program
.
Apply to the Online M.S. in Data Science
Your tomorrow starts now
The online master’s in data science degree program at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering is a flexible way to gain the advanced skills in data science you need to achieve your career goals at any pace.
Take the next step by exploring
Luddy School admissions
or
requesting information
..
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Tuition & Fees
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor