[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/bs-data-science/index.html

Home
Programs
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor's Degree in Data Science
Talk to a recruiter
Estimate tuition
Apply now
Contact us
To learn more about the program.
dsugs@iu.edu
Our Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Data Science degree gives students the skills, tools, and experiences to make intelligent, data-driven decisions and draw conveyable meaning from data sets, positioning them for data science careers in nearly every industry imaginable.
Our daily lives generate more data than ever before. Earning a bachelor’s degree in data science provides the mathematical, programming, and analytical skills needed to create and improve the data systems of many types of organizations.
Data scientists change the world. Whether it’s developing policies in response to climate change, helping local governments prepare for natural disasters, transforming businesses through improved logistics, feeding the hungry, preventing car accidents or crime, or changing the way sports teams scout players, majoring in data science qualifies students for a multitude of interesting career paths.
Let's stay in touch
Complete this form to learn more about data science at IU.
Luddy Undergraduate Marketing Campaign
Name
*
First
Last
Email
*
Expected High School Graduation Year
*
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Interested Major
Any
Cybersecurity and Global Policy
Computer Science
Data Science
Informatics
Intelligent Systems Engineering
UTM Campaign
UTM Source
UTM Medium
UTM Content
UTM Term
Stream
B.S. in Data Science career outcomes
Companies in every industry, such as tech, finance, healthcare, the service industry, and more, seek to create, use, or design data systems while making the most of their collected data to improve and grow. The skills you learn in the B.S. in Data Science program can be applied in many fields to roles such as data scientist, data manager, researcher, or developer.
Luddy students in 2019-20 were hired by more than 400 companies and organizations in sectors such as privacy and security, machine learning, statistical analysis, consulting, and more.
Explore the
career prep services at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
.
From big data to cloud computing, from astronomy to sports, data science is the foundation of our data-driven future, and the demand for trained data scientists has never been higher.
Data Science major specializations
The broad, blended bachelor of data science curriculum offers
degree specializations
that help you build a skillset that matches your interests and is attractive to employers in this rapidly growing field. Our five degree tracks each open a range of in-demand career opportunities, refining your talents in an area of your interest and giving you an advantage in your future career path.
Along with choosing a data science specialization, adding a
Luddy minor
, such as a minor in statistics, IT, virtual reality, or computer science, can add value to your bachelor’s degree.
Foundational Data Science
Choose to specialize in foundational data science to thoroughly understand the fundamental concepts of data science, from data analysis to the principles of machine learning, database concepts, algorithm design, statistical theory, and more.
Data Systems
If you’re interested in the design, implementation, and study of data systems, you might be interested in the data systems specialization. Embedded systems, cloud computing, distributed systems, and big data applications are just some of the areas of focus for data science majors specializing in data systems.
Network and Applied Data Science
If you specialize your data science major in network and applied data science, you’ll learn the fundamentals of network science and data visualization, and apply your knowledge to a variety of areas such as big data, data mining, analytics, biology, and more.
Data Science Design
Data science requires a bridge between people and technology. This specialization gives you the tools to explore the human-technology interface including design, visualization, collaborative technologies.
Biological and Health Science
A new data-centric perspective of health has arisen: (1) people should own their health data (2) all data, from bio-molecular to electronic health records should be integrated to produce better outcomes, drive down cost, and make healthcare equitable. Students in the biological and health science track learn how to combine data with the natural sciences to improve healthcare outcomes and our understanding of the world.
Data Science research opportunities
Opportunities to join faculty and other students on real research projects add experience to your resume, opening career opportunities before you graduate. Luddy’s
data science research programs
conduct boundary-pushing work at more than five research centers, including the Center for Bioinformatics Research and the Cyberinfrastructure for Network Science Center.
Explore the Luddy Living Learning Center
The
Luddy Living Learning Center
(LLC) is a living space designed to connect first-year, tech-loving Luddy students of different disciplines and various interests.
Explore the LLC’s high-tech makerspaces
and opportunities for trips and guest speakers.
Luddy student organizations
Several student organizations enrich the IU Bloomington campus, from clubs for future entrepreneurs to clubs discussing ethics in tech.
Explore Luddy’s student organizations
for one that interests you, like the
Data Science Club
.
Data Science degree requirements
Luddy’s B.S. in Data Science curriculum takes an interdisciplinary approach to data science, ensuring students have essential programming knowledge, can conduct both quantitative and qualitative analysis, and can successfully communicate complex ideas in classroom and professional environments.
Full degree requirements, including specialization courses and honors options, can be found in the IU Academic bulletin representing the year you entered IU.
View example degree map
Requirement in earlier academic bulletins
2024-25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Related programs
Luddy’s data science program is a collaborative effort with the College of Arts and Science and the O’Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs. Along with the B.S. in Data Science, Luddy offers minors, certificates, and graduate data science degrees.
Data Science Minor
Available for any Luddy major, expanding your skills to include the ability to interpret and analyze data can give you a marketable advantage over others in the job market.
On-Campus M.S. in Data Science
Future and current data science professionals can refine their skills and gain hands-on project experience by earning a Master of Science in Data Science.
Online M.S. in Data Science
Designed for today’s world and the lives of busy professionals.
Data Science Graduate Certificate
Learn the essentials of data science, data analytics, cloud computing, and more in only two semesters with the flexible graduate certificate program.
Advising and student resources
Whether you’re already a data science undergraduate student or you are an undeclared major at IU, Luddy advisors are here to help you chart your path to tomorrow. Our advisors will help you understand data science degree requirements, learn about unique academic opportunities, and meet your personal goals.
Talk to your advisor
Undergraduate scholarships and aid
Whether you’re directly admitted to the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering or you’re applying as an exploratory IU undergraduate student, you can manage the cost of tuition and fees through federal financial aid or scholarships. Review information about
tuition cost and financial aid, and explore scholarships for new Luddy students
.
Estimate tuition
Take the next step to earning a B.S. in Data Science
With our Bachelor of Science in Data Science degree, graduates are equipped with the creative and technical skills they need to succeed in all domains of data science, not only their specialization. If you’re interested in starting your data science career,
request information about the B.S. in Data Science
and
learn how to apply to IU Bloomington
.
Begin your application to the data science program
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor