[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/graduate-certificate-online/index.html

Home
Programs
Graduate Certificate — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
A customizable certificate for busy professionals
The online Graduate Certificate in Data Science was created to help you quickly and conveniently acquire new skills in topics such as data analysis, cloud computing, health and medicine, statistics, and data mining. It’s the perfect solution for an immediate need.
The certificate is completed 100% online, and can be earned in as few as two semesters (or in as many as four semesters)—giving you the flexibility to build a schedule of courses that suits your lifestyle.
Interested in applying?
Find out
how to apply
, and then submit your
online graduate application
by the deadlines.
Admission deadlines:
Fall semester:
May 1
Spring semester:
November 1
Want a sneak peek?
See what it's like to be a Luddy online student and experience real graduate courses through our
Luddy Test Drive
.
Certificate requirements
Earning this certificate requires the completion of 12 credit hours from an approved list of online graduate-level courses; completion of four (4) online courses are required for the certificate.
You may not transfer credits from another graduate or undergraduate program to satisfy these requirements, and your coursework must be completed within two years of entering the certificate program.
To take courses that will accelerate your career path, we encourage you to consult with one of our
faculty advisors
.
Fast-track your education
After you completing your graduate certificate coursework, you can apply those credits towards the
Online M.S. in Data Science
program.
Review the full list of your degree requirements
All data science course requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
If you wish to enroll in a course not listed in the academic bulletin, or outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, please
contact us
to request approval.
2024–25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2023–24 MS in Data Science and 4 + 1 bulletin
2023–24 MS Data Science-Online and 4+1 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
2021–22 bulletin
What I like most about the certificate is the ability to learn state-of-the-art tools and connect with experienced professionals without leaving home.
Rhonda Fischer, Graduate Certificate in Data Science
More online options
Online M.S. in Data Science
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Graduate Certificate — Online
Tuition & Fees
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor