[Source URL]: https://datascience.indiana.edu/programs/ms-data-science-online/msds-online-tuition-and-fees.html

Home
Programs
Master of Science — Online
Tuition & Fees
Tuition & Fees
The Luddy School strives to offer affordable online programs. Our sensible tuition allows students to earn an accredited degree at a fraction of the in-person cost.
Tuition is assessed based on the number of credits a student enrolls each semester. The table below shows tuition for the M.S in Data Science - Online for the 2022-2023 academic year:
M.S in Data Science - Online Fall 2022, Spring 2023, Summer 2023
-
Indiana Resident
Non-Resident
International
Tuition (Per credit hour)
$490.00
$812.50
$812.50
Tuition is subject to change every academic year by action of the Trustees of Indiana University.
Most courses are three (3) credit hours. Students typically enroll in one or two courses (3 to 6 credit hours) per semester.
Estimated cost for a three (3) credit-hour course
-
Indiana Resident
Non-Resident
International
Tuition
$1,470.00
$2,437.50
$2,437.50
Total per Course
$1,470.00
$2,437.50
$2,437.50
**Total tuition includes mandatory fees, graduate tuition, and the average cost of textbooks or software.
Financial aid
There are many options available to help fund your education, including federal loans, third-party sponsorship, and military benefits.
Federal Financial Aid
Students interested in federal financial aid must submit the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA). Include federal school code 001809 under School Selection. IU Bloomington offers additional
financial support
information, including on how to apply for a
Graduate PLUS loan
.
If you have questions about federal student loans for graduate students, please visit the
Office of Student Financial Assistance
for additional information.
Employer Tuition Assistance
Students may have their tuition billed to a third-party sponsor, such as their employer. Third parties cannot be billed directly if payment is conditional (contingent on grades, for example). Check with your employer about company-sponsored tuition benefits. Learn more about third-party sponsors and billing on the
IU Student Central website
.
Veteran Affairs (VA) Benefits
Indiana University is committed to providing support and assistance to military students, veterans, and their families. If you are on active duty or a veteran and you wish to use your military benefits to pay for your educational expenses, please contact the IU Veterans Support Services office as soon as possible. The office can be reached at
vetserv@iu.edu
or 812-856-1985.
For general questions and answers on veterans’ benefits, visit these sites:
S. Department of Veterans Affairs Education Service
Indiana Department of Veteran Affairs
Veterans Affairs Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
International Student Aid
International students are ineligible for federal student loans but still have opportunities to receive financial assistance. Be open-minded about your funding search and look beyond IU. Such sources of support may include aid from your home country, U.S. federal aid (other than federal student loans), nongovernmental sources, and departmental aid.
Explore these options through
IU’s Office of International Services
.
Bachelor of Science
Master of Science — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Residential
Master of Science 4+1 — Online
Master of Science — Online
Tuition & Fees
Graduate Certificate — Online
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Applied Statistics
Dual M.S. in Data Science and Statistical Science
Minor in Data Science
Doctoral Minor