[Source URL]: https://diversity.iu.edu/cultural-involvement/heritage-months/index.html

Home
Cultural Involvement
Heritage and Identity Recognition
Heritage and Identity Recognition
Heritage and Identity Recognition
In celebration of the histories and contributions of historically marginalized identities, Indiana University celebrates heritage months and identity acknowledgments throughout the year. These recognitions are an opportunity for all members of the community to learn more about the traditions, people, history and current experiences of those who've overcome oppression to create opportunities for all.
National Hispanic Heritage Month
(SEPTEMBER 15 - OCTOBER 15)
IU celebrates National Hispanic Heritage Month (NHHM) to recognize the achievements and contributions of Hispanic/Latine Americans. Discover events, exhibits, culinary experiences, programs, and more that highlight Hispanic culture.
Learn about NHHM
LGBTQ+ History Month
(October 1-31)
At Indiana University, LGBTQ+ History Month focuses on the celebration of the LGBTQ+ community and achievements throughout history. Students, faculty, and the community can learn through an array of programs and special events.
Learn about LGBTQ+ History
Native American Heritage Month
(NOVEMBER 1 - NOVEMBER 30)
Throughout the month of November, IU’s campuses celebrate the work and cultures of Native and Indigenous communities. From a variety of events, discussions, and webinars, Native American Heritage Month brings the contemporary Native experience to the forefront of people’s minds.
Learn about NAHM
Martin Luther King Day
(JANUARY 16, 2023)
Through a range of activities, including an annual leadership breakfast, workshops, films, panel discussions, and acclaimed speakers, Indiana University faculty, staff, students, and the community observe and honor Dr. King’s commitment to social justice and global peace.
Learn about MLK Day
Black History Month
(FEBRUARY 1 - MARCH 1)
IU's Black History Month celebration includes various programming, discussion panels, lectures, musical performances, and more to help the IU community learn about the Black experience and its past, present, and future contributions to society.
Learn about BHM
Women’s History Month
(MARCH 1 - MARCH 31)
At Indiana University, Women’s History Month focuses on celebrating women—both in history and today—who have made a difference through action. Students, faculty, and the community can learn about these individuals through an array of programs and special events.
Learn about WHM
Asian American Pacific Islander Month
(April 1 - April 30)
Nationally observed in May, Asian American & Pacific Islander Heritage Month (AAPIHM) is celebrated in April at Indiana University to allow the entire community to take part in various activities before the semester ends.
Learn about AAPIHM
Pride Month
(JUNE 1 - JUNE 30)
Celebrated across the country during June, Pride Month is a time to honor the LGBTQ+ community by recognizing not only the contributions of specific individuals but also how far the community has come. Indiana University continues to celebrate the LGBTQ+ community across all of its campuses with programs, workshops, community events, and more.
Learn more about LGBTQ+ History
Juneteenth
(JUNE 19)
Juneteenth became an official holiday at Indiana University in 2022. In addition to honoring and celebrating the day with special events and awareness programs, the day serves as a reminder of IU’s dedication to diversity, equity, and inclusion, as well as the ongoing work to make IU’s campuses welcoming, supportive and safe spaces for everyone.
Learn about Juneteenth
Heritage and Identity Recognition
Religious Holidays and Observances
Year-End Congratulatory Programs