[Source URL]: https://diversity.iu.edu/cultural-involvement/index.html

Home
Cultural Involvement
Cultural Involvement
How to support cultural awareness at IU
No matter your ethnicity, country of origin, gender, or sexual orientation—if you’ve landed here, you are a part of Indiana University’s richly diverse community.
OVPDEI helps students, faculty, and staff take advantage of the many opportunities to learn about and celebrate culture.
Our office supports six cultural centers in programming, events, outreach, and advocacy. We also support the African American Arts Institute—the only organization of its kind in the nation—and encourage student and alumni organizations that value community and culture.
Cultural Centers and Institutes
African American Arts Institute
The African American Arts Institute preserves and promotes African American culture through performance, education, creative activity, research, and outreach. Since 1974, the AAAI has provided opportunities for thousands of Indiana University students to explore their talents in performance, teaching, and arts management.
Explore African American arts
Asian Culture Center
More than 2,500 Asian and Asian Pacific American students attend Indiana University, bringing their diverse cultures and talents with them. The Asian Culture Center promotes awareness and understanding of Asian and Asian American cultures, histories, and issues through institutional resources, educational support, and community outreach.
Visit the Asian Culture Center
First Nations Educational and Cultural Center
The First Nations Educational and Cultural Center supports the retention and recruitment of American Indian, Alaskan Native, and Native Hawaiian students, faculty, and staff. Its mission is to build a Native community within the university, enhance the recognition and reputation of these communities, and provide educational opportunities that further awareness of the First Nations people.
Visit the FNECC
Jewish Culture Center
The Jewish Culture Center at Indiana University is a home away from home and a welcoming gathering space for Jewish students and all who want to learn about or experience Jewish life and culture. The Center also offers students many opportunities to recognize and develop their leadership potential and connect with Judaism in many traditional and creative ways. Learn more about and experience Jewish life, culture and tradition.
Visit the Jewish Culture Center
La Casa Latino Cultural Center
La Casa, the Latino Cultural Center, promotes academic excellence, personal and professional growth, and greater historical, political, and cultural awareness of the Latino community through educational and social programs.
Visit La Casa
LGBTQ+ Culture Center
The LGBTQ+ Culture Center celebrates sexual and gender diversity on a campus rated
one of the friendliest
in the United States for queer students and their friends and supporters. By providing a welcoming environment,
the center
serves as a resource for the IU LGBTQ+ community and people who want to better understand LGBTQ+ issues and concerns.
Be an LGBTQ+ advocate
Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center
The Neal-Marshall Black Culture Center has a storied history in supporting Indiana University’s efforts in recruitment and retention of Black students. The center connects IU to Black culture, promotes public awareness of the Black experience, and celebrates students’ academic and leadership achievements.
Visit the Black Culture Center
Our mission is to create a safe space to advocate for those in the LGBTQ community and their supporters, so that they can be themselves and be celebrated for that.
Nicholas Moore, Vice President of Spectrum at IU Southeast
Heritage and Identity Recognition
Religious Holidays and Observances
Year-End Congratulatory Programs