[Source URL]: https://economics.indiana.edu/graduate/index.html

M.A. Degree
M.S. Degree
Accelerated M.S. Degree
M.S. in Economics and Data Science
Ph.D. Degree
Fellowships
&
Funding
Honors
&
Awards
Student Experience
Job Placement
Job Market Candidates
5th Year Economics Students Showcase
How to Apply
Home
Graduate
Graduate
Depth + breadth within our discipline
The
Master of Arts
,
Master of Science
, and
Doctor of Philosophy
in Economics at Indiana University were designated as STEM programs in August 2020.
Our department strives to give doctoral students not only a broad understanding of the discipline, but also the opportunity to explore at least three fields in depth. We offer course work in these major fields:
computational macroeconomics
monetary economics/applied macroeconomics
financial econometrics
time series econometrics
micro econometrics and empirical io
international trade
experimental economics
games and networks
industrial organization
public economics
We offer an additional field in partnership with the
Kelley School of Business
. You can pursue a field in finance through our partnership with the Kelley School’s
Department of Finance
.
Once you have completed the core requirements and exams, you participate in the process of designing your field specialization and course of study. Our department provides a general framework for this and your faculty advisory committee provides guidance.
World-class faculty, research, + resources
Our department is home to over 30 faculty members who are respected leaders in the field of Economics. We also maintain a close relationship with the Business Economics and Public Policy department (BEPP) in the Kelley School of Business.
We are affiliated with several research centers on campus including the Center for Applied Economics and Policy Research, the Ostrom Workshop, and the Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis.
The IU campus is rich with resources to support your studies. You will have access to a vast library system, computing facilities and laboratories, area studies programs and centers, and more.
Meet our faculty
Learn about research
View centers + resources
Our students
Our graduate students come from a variety of backgrounds, representing diverse ethnic and racial groups from all parts of the United States and most regions of the world. Their educational backgrounds range from small liberal arts colleges to large state universities. Some have completed only the B.A. or B.S., while others have M.A. degrees. The average size of our incoming class is between 18 and 20 students.
Our students have won a variety of prestigious awards for their dissertations and teaching. They have also received MacArthur Fellowships, Starr Fellowships, International Research Exchange Fellowships, and National Science Foundation grants for support of dissertation research in the United States and abroad.
We provide comprehensive
career placement support
for our graduate students.
Degrees offered
M.A. degree
M.S. degree
Ph.D. degree
Tilburg University rankings
Tilburg University creates a ranking of all of the Ph.D. granting Economics departments in the world, and IU Economics consistently places among the best.
45th
internationally
22nd
in the United States
top 10
among U.S. public universities
Interested in applying to IU Economics?
Apply to the M.S. Program
Apply to the Ph.D. Program
Graduate program questions? Contact us!