[Source URL]: https://engineering.indiana.edu/career-prep/index.html

Home
Career Prep
Career Prep
The engineering careers of the future
Engineers are always sought after, and the demand for engineers in ISE-related fields is already high and growing rapidly. You will graduate ready to work in areas like artificial intelligence, the internet of things, smart materials, machine learning, systems and networking, and product engineering.
Employers know they can find great interns and full-time hires at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering: in 2022, more than 399 organizations hired Luddy graduates for full-time positions and internships.
Class of 2022
98%
Employed or continuing education
Employers
Learn about hiring our skilled and prepared students.
Access career services
Luddy Career Services—our school-wide career services office—helps undergrads, graduate students, and alumni realize their career potential.
Log into Handshake
Apply for jobs and internships, post your resume for employers to see, RSVP for employer events, schedule coaching, and more.
Luddy Career Services will help you hone your elevator pitch about what ISE is and what you can do, which is vital in a new field like ours.
Get experience early and often
Our
programs
are designed to be practical and project based from the start, so you can master key skills and point to examples of your expertise. Additional ways to get experience include:
Internships with employers like Boeing, Eli Lilly and Company, ExxonMobil, and Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane Division (
log into Handshake
to see openings)
Research opportunities
with
faculty members
who will mentor you
On-campus jobs (find them through
Jobs at IU
) or other part-time work
Volunteer opportunities
Student organizations
like the
INgineering club
Accelerated master’s degree
Current undergrads can deepen their skills and increase their earning potential by earning an M.S. degree in just one more year of study.
Learn about our accelerated master’s degree
In my internship I was able to offer a different engineering perspective and unique solutions that my colleagues hadn’t previously considered.
Jonathan Krzesniak, B.S. student who interned at Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane Division
International students
IU’s
Immigration Bridge Program
can help you with the H-1B visa process and improve your chances of getting job offers.
Before the job offer stage, F-1 international students have two options for off-campus employment: Curricular Practical Training and Optional Practical Training.
Curricular Practical Training
Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is paid work that is integral to your program and that you do for an off-campus employer in your field of study while you are enrolled as a student. Paid internships are a form of CPT.
The IU Office of International Services has
detailed information about CPT
. Also be sure to review the Career Services Office’s
recruiting guidelines
.
Undergraduates
Talk to your
advisor
for help applying for CPT.
Graduate students
Contact the Intelligent Systems Engineering Graduate Studies Office at
isegrad@indiana.edu
before you start your application so we can guide you through the CPT process.
Optional Practical Training
Optional Practical Training (OPT) is work done for an off-campus employer in your field of study, usually following graduation.
The IU Office of International Services has
detailed information about OPT
.
Get ready for technical interviews
You may be asked to participate in a technical interview if an employer wants to evaluate your technical skills. We offer several ways to help you prepare for your technical interviews:
Log into Handshake
and go to the Career Search Guide to learn all about technical interviews.
Make an appointment with the Career Services Office for a mock technical interview. The career staff can tailor your mock interview to the field you are interested in entering.
If you are pursuing a career that involves programming, participate in Luddy’s programming competitions.
Start your career preparation
Log into Handshake