[Source URL]: https://engineering.indiana.edu/programs/ms-intelligent-systems-engineering.html

Home
Programs
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Engineer solutions for an ever-changing world
In our Master of Science in Intelligent Systems Engineering (ISE) program, you will get technical expertise in computational engineering and artificial intelligence—the future of engineering and problem solving.
This two-year program teaches you to use modern approaches and design principles to develop systems or devices that gather, interpret, and use data. You can work in the microscopic sensors that make our devices, homes, and vehicles “smart.” Go into advanced health diagnostics and tissue engineering. Master the massive systems that analyze the flood of data around us and drive decision making. And much more.
You will study at IU Bloomington—a top research university located in a multicultural small city—and will graduate ready for a Ph.D. program or a variety of high-demand careers.
Learn about career preparation
Intelligent Systems Engineering Handbook
Let's stay in touch!
We want to hear from you! The Luddy School is here to answer any questions you may have, and we’re more than happy to guide you down your path to tomorrow.
How to apply
Cost and financial aid
Visit us
A customizable curriculum
The M.S. includes many opportunities to shape your degree to your interests and goals, including our tracks and paradigms.
Choose a track
Select one of the following six tracks, or choose a general major of intelligent systems.
Bioengineering
This broad field combines scientific knowledge in the life sciences, computing, and engineering practices to solve problems spanning biology, medicine, environmental remediation, and more. Bioengineering builds on existing IU Bloomington strengths to train the next generation of computing-driven bioengineers.
Computer engineering
Computer engineering includes everything from building more efficient networks to making computer hardware smaller and faster to creating software that will better use the resources at its disposal. Within CE, students can mix and match courses to tailor the program toward building big data or deep learning analysis systems, creating high performance computing systems, or engineering specialized computing devices.
Cyber-physical systems
This field focuses on systems that interact with the physical world. CPS encompasses the entire system—including high-level software—and it often emphasizes small or embedded devices. This includes robotics and sensor-rich environments such as smart homes, smart cars, and smart cities. In all of these cases, the intelligence comes from computing devices.
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineers use the principles of biology, chemistry, engineering, and technology to solve problems facing the environment. Studying climate change, tackling pollutants, predicting environmental outcomes, developing drones to measure 3D concentration gradients and fluxes, and studying applied microbiology and aquatic chemistry are just some of the ways you can make an impact on a global scale in this exciting field.
Molecular and nanoscale engineering
Molecular and nanoscale engineering integrates concepts from electrical and materials engineering with nanoscience to prepare students to work with cyber-physical systems or other responsive, intelligent systems that include nanoscale building blocks. Modeling and simulation of nanostructured assemblies, functional nanoparticles, and soft nanosystems are integral parts of this emerging field. Students are trained in both experimental and computational aspects of nanoengineering, and can pursue their interest in sensing technologies, energy devices, nanomedicine, materials discovery, and other areas of study.
Neuroengineering
Neuroengineering studies, enhances, monitors, heals, and replicates the nervous system. Neuroengineers have the unique opportunity to link theories of the mind to applications that can build intelligent machines and software. Advances in this field will bring about repairs for damaged nervous systems, new devices to read brain function, and smart machines to accomplish tasks. Microscale devices that couple nervous systems with physical systems also can lead to new cognitive development as well as computations that form the basis of memory systems.
Choose a paradigm
Our paradigms give you four different pathways through our 30 credit hour program, depending on your goals.
Coursework:
All coursework
Internship:
Coursework and up to 6 credits of internships, designed for students interested in getting industry experience
Project:
Coursework and a 6 credit capstone project, perfect if you have a big idea you want to explore
Research:
Coursework and 6 to 9 credits of research, ideal for future Ph.D. students
International students
Many students and faculty in ISE and throughout Indiana University come from other countries. The university, our department, and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering offer many types of support for you and a global community that we hope you will join.
Learn about international student support
Learn about off-campus employment
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Current student resources
Student portal
Handbooks, forms, and more helpful resources.
Courses
See what courses we are offering and when.
Advising
For guidance and assistance, talk with your faculty advisor or contact the Luddy  Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
. We recommend that you meet with your advisor at least once per semester to plan your courses for the next semester.
Take the next step
Learn about funding
Apply now
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Ph.D. in Intelligent Systems Engineering