[Source URL]: https://engineering.indiana.edu/programs/accelerated-ms-intelligent-systems-engineering.html

Home
Programs
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Five years, two degrees
If you’re a current IU undergrad with a strong STEM background—especially if you’re earning the
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
—consider applying for our accelerated master’s program. In just one more year of study, you’ll earn a second degree: a
Master of Science in Intelligent Systems Engineering
.
Intelligent Systems Engineering Handbook
Four reasons to do the accelerated M.S. in ISE
Earn more
You’ll qualify for a higher starting salary and have the skills and degree to move up.
Save time and money
You’ll take up to 12 fewer credit hours than if you earned a B.S. and M.S. individually.
Build on your IU connections
Learn more from your IU mentors, and keep collaborating with your friends and partners.
Get the same valuable degree
All M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering students earn the same degree and diploma.
How it works
You’ll complete the
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
curriculum, but you can apply up to 12 credit hours of graduate-level coursework toward both your bachelor’s degree and your master’s degree. You’ll complete the remaining 18 credits for the M.S. during your fifth year.
Costs
Any graduate-level courses you take during your first eight semesters are charged at the undergraduate rate—saving you a lot in tuition. For your ninth and tenth semesters, you’ll be charged at the graduate rate. Learn more about
costs and financial aid
.
Admission
Prerequisites
Students in this program need to have a solid foundation in STEM coursework. You should have a 3.0 GPA and experience in:
C, Java, and Python
R and MATLAB
Calculus I and II
Probability theory and/or statistics
Apply
First, meet with the
ISE academic advisor
, who will guide you through the process. We recommend that you apply before your seventh semester.
In order to apply to this program, you will need to meet with the ISE undergraduate academic advisor who will review minimum requirements with you. If you are determined to meet those requirements, the advisor will inform the Luddy Graduate Admissions Office and that office will contact you on how to apply through the standard ISE graduation application. You will be given a special invitation code to access the application.
See the application instructions and apply
Review your degree requirements
Degree requirements for the accelerated master’s program are the same as the requirements for the M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering, which are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Take the next step
Apply now
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Ph.D. in Intelligent Systems Engineering