[Source URL]: https://engineering.indiana.edu/programs/bs-intelligent-systems-engineering/index.html

Home
Programs
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Bachelor’s Degree in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Talk to a recruiter
Estimate tuition
Apply now
Driven by artificial intelligence and computing, our Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Intelligent Systems Engineering (ISE) degree prepares you to be a well-rounded, forward-thinking engineer.
Our bachelor’s program in engineering with intelligent systems is project-based and hands-on. You’ll design and build computerized devices and the systems that work with them, from your first class through your senior design capstone. You can also work with faculty on research—from day one.
Let's stay in touch
Complete this form to learn more about intelligent systems engineering at IU.
Luddy Undergraduate Marketing Campaign
Name
*
First
Last
Email
*
Expected High School Graduation Year
*
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Interested Major
Any
Cybersecurity and Global Policy
Computer Science
Data Science
Informatics
Intelligent Systems Engineering
UTM Campaign
UTM Source
UTM Medium
UTM Content
UTM Term
Stream
Prepare for an innovative career
What is intelligent systems engineering? This field seeks ways to use technology, specifically computing, machine learning, and artificial intelligence, to create solutions at any scale. Engineering with intelligent systems can include building nanoscale medical devices, autonomous cars, and smart homes, designing specialized software and high-performance computer systems, and more.
Engineers must work in dynamic environments with colleagues from other disciplines. In the intelligent systems degree program, you’ll learn essential technical knowledge and skills like communication and collaboration in preparation for careers in engineering in multiple industries. And you’ll do it at a university that nourishes creativity, new ideas, and experiential learning, in a small, family-like department where professors and staff put your success first.
Whether you plan to pursue graduate programs in engineering or enter the job market after graduation, the
Department of Intelligent Systems Engineering
sets you up for career achievement. In the class of 2019-20, our graduates reported 100% employment or continuing education after earning their degree.
Explore career prep resources
for intelligent systems engineering majors at Luddy.
Add a master’s degree in just one more year
Learn about our Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering.
Review program objectives and degree outcomes
Learn about the skills you’ll have as a graduate of the bachelor’s degree program.
Xandria McDowell
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Today
Programming robots to detect and avoid objects for a project that aims to use autonomous vehicles to transmit wildfire data to firefighters in the field
Tomorrow
Managing technology projects, leading a company, and teaching the next generation of engineers
Learn about research opportunities
Choose a degree concentration
In addition to the core intelligent systems engineering curriculum, you’ll select one study concentration that gives you in-depth knowledge and experience in a key area of the field.
Each area is designed to build marketable skills in the application of artificial intelligence to engineering in various industries and prepare you for further growth as an engineer, either through graduate study or industry experience.
Accreditation
Our Bachelor of Science in Intelligent Systems Engineering program is accredited by the
Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET
.
Bioengineering and Pre-med Path
Bioengineering is an expansive field which combines biology with technology and classic engineering principles. Bioengineers address biological, environmental, agricultural, and medical challenges in ways that enhance people’s lives and improve how we live in our environment.
With an optional pathway satisfying IU’s pre-med requirements, this degree concentration can prepare you to enter—and thrive in—government research settings, medical school, or grad programs in biology, psychology, neuroscience, cognitive science, chemistry, and other scientific fields.
Review the bioengineering degree map to see the four-year degree plan.
Or, email
iseugrad@indiana.edu
for the degree map in a PDF
.
Computer engineering
Computer engineering includes many objectives and specialties, from artificial intelligence to building more efficient networks to making computer hardware smaller, faster, and more capable.
Computer engineers are in high demand by a range of employers, including technology companies, financial firms, manufacturers, defense contractors, aerospace companies, and more.
See a four-year degree map for the computer engineering degree concentration
. Or, email
iseugrad@indiana.edu
for the degree map in a PDF
.
Cyber-physical systems
In the cyber-physical systems degree concentration, computational technology merges with human or environmental interaction in “smart” networked systems that sense and interact with the physical world.
This field of intelligent systems engineering provides the foundation for critical infrastructure, improved health care, and the interactive technologies that will shape the future.
Review the cyber-physical systems example degree map
. Or,
email
iseugrad@indiana.edu
for the degree map in a PDF
.
Molecular and nanoscale engineering
The emerging field of nanoscale engineering integrates concepts from electrical and materials engineering with nanoscience, designing atom-by-atom structures to create real-world devices with previously unachievable behaviors and performance.
This degree concentration prepares you to meet expectations of nanoengineering environments, applying sensing and nanofabrication technologies to a wide range of arenas such as energy, food production, and national security.
See the four-year degree plan for the molecular and nanoscale engineering degree concentration
. Or,
email
iseugrad@indiana.edu
for the degree map in a PDF
.
Hands-On Engineering Capstone Project
Each intelligent systems engineering major will graduate with a real engineering project under their belt, thanks to our hands-on design capstone project, completed during senior year.
After learning modeling, simulation, systems design, and more, you’ll apply those skills to the development of advanced research or tech design in your concentration area, supported by dedicated faculty and other students, often from different concentrations.
An interdisciplinary group project, the ISE capstone is a cornerstone of collaboration and teamwork that produces new knowledge and real experience.
ISE research opportunities
As an undergraduate engineering student, you may have the opportunity to work alongside expert faculty and graduate students in research initiatives that make a difference in the world of intelligent systems engineering. Gaining research experience bolsters your resume and prepares you for further work in graduate programs, industry research and development, or defense research projects.
Check out our engineering faculty’s groundbreaking research projects
and
learn more about undergraduate research opportunities
.
Experience the Luddy Living Learning Center
A tech-driven residential community
Check out the LLC
Enrich your education with Luddy student organizations
Gain experience in your field and connect with peers and faculty
Explore student orgs
ISE degree requirements and curriculum
The B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering’s program curriculum combines intensive engineering and computing study—including lots of programming—with Indiana University’s broad, liberal arts foundation.
Complete program requirements, including concentration area courses, are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, check out the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Get in touch with Luddy advising
Whether you’re already an intelligent systems engineering student, you’re interested in applying, or you are at IU but haven’t declared a major, the Luddy advising team will help you understand your degree requirements and meet your goals.
Make an appointment with an advisor to learn more
.
For current intelligent systems engineering students,
visit our student portal
.
Luddy School scholarships and financial aid
Scholarships and federal financial aid are two ways IU Bloomington students can manage the cost of tuition and fees. There are scholarships just for incoming Luddy School students, too.
Review
complete tuition and financial aid information
and
explore Luddy scholarships
.
Learn how to apply to the B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Our B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering program imparts the fundamental principles of engineering, computing, and programming that prepare you to pursue a career or further education in your chosen field. Using the form on this page, request more information about our engineering with intelligent systems program to get started.
Ready to take the next step?
Learn how to apply
.
Contact us
Plan a visit
Apply now
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Ph.D. in Intelligent Systems Engineering