[Source URL]: https://engineering.indiana.edu/

The future of engineering
Engineering is all about problem solving. Intelligent systems engineering (ISE) offers the next generation of solutions, powered by computing and artificial intelligence.
In ISE, you’ll create systems that sense and react to their environments. You’ll build computers into devices large and small. And you’ll learn to gather, interpret, and use data for everything from smart devices and robotics to environmental sustainability and medicine.
We see what tomorrow can be, and we shape it every day.
Learn how to apply
See your next steps, and find out about campus visits, scholarships, and graduate student funding.
Find your program
We offer a bachelor’s degree, a 4+1 option, a master’s degree, and a doctorate. Which is right for you?
Explore our research
We’re redefining what engineering can be and do. Learn about our research areas and progress.
we engineer
we solve
we build
we design
we simulate
we invent
we program
we visualize
we create
we compute
we enhance
we drive
we accelerate
we see
We see
tomorrow
Work with faculty from day one
Research is central to our doctoral program, naturally—but it’s also a key component of our undergraduate program and an option for master’s students. Even first-year undergrads can work with our impressive faculty. Which professor’s work interests you?
Meet our faculty
Aswin Sivaraman
Ph.D. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Today
Developing a machine learning model for speech noise reduction in video calls that uses facial movements to better interpret what people are saying
Tomorrow
Improving sound recognition by computers and expanding its uses—for example, by creating a voice-controlled app for making music
Learn about the Ph.D. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
First
engineering program at Indiana University
14:1
undergraduate student–faculty ratio
25
faculty members
Luddy in the news
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Luddy School study to help women achieve peak athletic performance
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
See more news
Your tomorrow starts now
Find your program
Apply today