[Source URL]: https://fortune.com/education/articles/methodology-for-fortunes-ranking-of-in-person-masters-in-data-science-programs/

Tech
EDUCATION
Tech
METHODOLOGY FOR FORTUNE’S RANKING OF THE BEST MASTER’S IN DATA SCIENCE
Methodology for Fortune’s ranking of the best master’s in data science
BY
Preston Fore
Staff Writer, Education
Preston Fore
Staff Writer, Education
Preston Fore is a staff writer at Fortune, covering the worlds of education and personal financed. Preston graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he studied journalism and global studies. His previous work can be found in The Daily Tar Heel and CNN.
SEE FULL BIO
BY
Brad Haft
Staff Writer, Education
Brad Haft
Staff Writer, Education
Brad Haft was a staff writer on the Fortune education team, covering topics such as education, business, budding technologies, and emerging career paths. He also produced videos for the team's social media. A proud alumnus of the University of South Florida, Brad majored in broadcast journalism and minored in entrepreneurship.
SEE FULL BIO
REVIEWED BY
Jasmine Suarez
Senior Staff Editor
Jasmine Suarez
Senior Staff Editor
Jasmine Suarez is a senior editor at Fortune where she leads coverage for careers, education and finance.
Before joining Fortune, she was a
senior editor at Business Insider
.
In the past, she’s worked for Adweek, Red Ventures, McGraw-Hill, Pearson, and more.
SEE FULL BIO
Obtaining a master’s in data science will take about two years and enhance one’s knowledge of AI, machine learning, and statistics.
Getty Images
About the
Contributors
Top Articles
10 AI bootcamps taught by top schools, companies, and tech experts
BY
Alyse Maguire
February 18, 2025
The top 10 cybersecurity companies in the United States
BY
Jasmine Suarez
February 3, 2025
MBA grads reliably earn a six-figure salary in these 6 industries
BY
Preston Fore
and
Sarah Thomas-Oxtoby
October 11, 2024
Business rankings
Best Online MBA Programs for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Accounting Programs for 2024
Best MBA Programs for 2024
Best Executive MBA Programs for 2024
Best Part-Time MBA Programs for 2024
25 Most Affordable Online MBAs for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Business Analytics Programs for 2024
Best Online Doctorate in Education (EdD) Programs for 2024
Most Affordable Online Doctorate in Education (EdD) Programs for 2024
Tech rankings
Best Online Master’s in Data Science Programs for 2024
Most Affordable Master’s in Data Science for 2024
Best Master’s in Cybersecurity Degrees for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Cybersecurity Degrees for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Computer Science Degrees for 2024
Best Master’s in Data Science Programs for 2024
Most Affordable Online Master’s in Data Science Programs for 2024
Most Affordable Online Master’s in Cybersecurity Degrees for 2024
Best Data Science and Analytics Bootcamps for 2024
Coding Bootcamps in New York for 2024
Best Cybersecurity Bootcamps for 2024
Best UX/UI bootcamps of 2025
Health and wellness rankings
Best Online MSN Nurse Practitioner Programs for 2024
Accredited Online Master’s of Social Work (MSW) Programs for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Nursing (MSN) Programs for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Public Health (MPH) Programs for 2024
Most Affordable Online MSN Nurse Practitioner Programs for 2024
Best Online Master’s in Psychology Programs for 2024
Advertisement
Earn Your Master’s in Data Science Online From SMU
Want to pursue a top 3 job in the U.S.? Earn a M.S. online and become a data scientist with SMU
Designed for working professionals looking to advance their careers, DataScience@SMU is an online Master of Science in Data Science from Southern Methodist University. The program’s interdisciplinary curriculum prepares data science professionals to work with large datasets, analyze information and relate findings. The program blends live online classes, self-paced coursework and in-person learning experiences with classmates and faculty.
Learn More
Learn More
GRE Required
No
Part Time
Yes