[Source URL]: http://geography.indiana.edu/graduate/

Ph.D.
&
Master's Degrees
Minor
&
Certificate
Courses
Fellowships
&
Funding Opportunities
Scholarships
&
Awards
Student Experience
How to Apply
Home
Graduate
Graduate
A tradition of excellence in teaching + research
IU's Department of Geography has an established reputation as a center of excellence in research and teaching. The preparation of our graduate students for careers in research, teaching, and service is one of the crucial missions of the department.
We are a small, but very active department where you will benefit from working closely with our faculty. We have an excellent record of job placement in academic positions. Our alumni have also gone on to a variety of rewarding careers in public and private sector employment across the U.S. and the world.
We attract, and encourage, students from a wide variety of academic backgrounds. We offer the following degrees:
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Geography
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Geography with a specialization in Climate and Environmental Change
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Geography with a specialization in Information System and Remote Sensing
Master of Arts (M.A.)
Master of Science (M.S.)
Master of Geographic Information Sciences
M.S. in Geography with a specialization in Climate and Environmental Change
M.S. in Geography with a specialization in Information System and Remote Sensing
Our five subfields
Our faculty are respected teachers and researchers who work side by side with our graduate students to address some of the most critical issues of today. We require graduate students to be involved in our department at a high-level of service. This commitment promotes the development of leadership skills.
IU Geography is recognized nationally and internationally for our strengths within five key research subfields: Cities, Development, and Justice; Climate and Environmental Change; Food and Agriculture;  GIS and Remote Sensing; and Water Resources.
Cities, Development, + Justice
+
Climate + Environmental Change
+
Food + Agriculture
+
GIS + Remote Sensing
+
Water Resources
+
Meet our faculty
View our research
Campus resources + support
As a major Research 1 university, Indiana University offers rich opportunities for coursework and research support. The College of Arts and Sciences has more than 20 area studies centers and teaches more than 70 languages.
Learn about research in the College
Interested in applying to IU Geography?
Learn how to apply