[Source URL]: https://global.iu.edu/resources/visa-immigration-updates.html

Home
International Resources
Immigration & Visa Updates
Immigration & Visa Updates
Immigration & Visa Updates
IU Global closely monitors federal visa and immigration policy changes and their impact on international students, scholars, employees, and dependents across all IU campuses. This page will be updated regularly with verified information, and direct communications will be sent when immediate updates are necessary. While some policies take time to change, others can be implemented quickly, so we work with legal experts to provide timely, accurate guidance. If you are traveling, review the recommended documents and stay informed. To avoid misinformation, we will only share confirmed updates and refrain from addressing speculation or unverified reports.
What documents should I carry with me?
When you travel, you should carry some specific documents with you. Do not put them in your checked baggage! Here are the documents you should carry with you:
Your I-94 form
Passport (including an attached envelope of immigration documents)
SEVIS Form I-20 or DS-2019
Evidence of financial resources
In addition, SEVP recommends that you also carry the following:
Admission Letter
Evidence of Student/Exchange Visitor status (recent tuition receipts, transcripts), if you are a transfer student
SEVIS Fee Receipt
Name and contact information for Designated School Official at your intended school or program (There are multiple DSOs at IU South Bend; please call the main office line at 574-520-4419 )
Writing instrument (pen)
When you are not traveling, you may prefer not to carry physical copies of your documents (Form I-20, passport, visa). In that case, you should ensure that you have clear digital copies of those documents stored securely on your device.
I am planning to travel internationally. What should I do?
Currently, there are no known travel restrictions, but policies may change. International students planning to travel this semester should consult with the Office of International Services (IUB and regional campuses) or the Office of International Affairs (IU Indianapolis) before traveling.
Ensure that you will be able to travel back to the U.S. in time for any in-person class requirements
Check that your visa and other paperwork required to return to the U.S. are in order (appointment backlogs at U.S. embassies and consulates continue to be an issue)
What do I do as a faculty/ staff member if a government official asks me for information about an international student or scholar?
Any oral or written request you receive should be referred to the Office of the Vice President & General Counsel and Office of the Registrar. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) protects the privacy of information contained in student education records. Information from those records may be shared outside of the university only with the written consent of the student or if an exception to FERPA’s consent requirement applies (e.g., directory information, health and safety emergency). The Registrar’s Office is available to help guide you through issues regarding student records privacy and to respond to requests for student records. Faculty and staff should not, and have no responsibility to, provide information to a federal or state official requesting immediate information on a phone call or during an in-person visit.
Resources for Students and Scholars
Current Processing Times
Current processing times are highly variable and expected to lengthen. Please keep this in mind as you consider travel outside the United States. Wait times at consulates and embassies within and outside of the United States are not within IU's control.
Entering or Re-Entering the United States
While this resource was initially written for first-year students attending the Bloomington campus, it provides a relevant overview of what to expect when entering the United States.
Immigration-Related Campus Concerns Brief
From the American Council on Education
Executive and Regulatory Actions Under the Second Trump Administration
From NAFSA: Association of International Educators
Steps to Take Before Traveling Internationally
Bloomington-based
For students and scholars at IU Bloomington, East, Kokomo, Northwest, South Bend, and Southeast
J-1 Students
F-1 Students
J-1 Scholars
H-1B Scholars
Indianapolis-based
For students and scholars at IU Indianapolis, Columbus, and Fort Wayne
J-1 Students
F-1 Students
J-1 Scholars
H-1B Scholars
Selected Executive Orders and Travel Restrictions
DHS Announcement of Social Media Screening
In accordance with President Trump’s executive orders
Combatting Anti-Semitism
,
Additional Measures to Combat Anti-Semitism
and
Protecting the United States from Foreign Terrorists and Other National Security and Public Safety Threats
, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced on April 9, 2025 that it will begin considering antisemitic activity on social media, along with the physical harassment of Jewish individuals, as grounds for denying immigration benefit requests. This update affects applicants for permanent resident status as well as foreign students. The full announcement is
available here
.
Updated Alien Registration Requirement Guidelines
Pursuant to an executive order, a new alien registration requirement will go into effect on April 11, 2025, for all non-U.S. citizens aged 14 and older who are present in the United States for 30 or more days.
Please note that for most foreign nationals the registration requirement is already met by admission through a U.S. port of entry and the issuance of an admission record (Form I-94). Nevertheless, because failure to comply with this requirement is subject to penalty, it is important that you confirm your registration status, and that of any non-US citizen dependents and complete the new Form G-325R online if necessary. For detailed guidance, please visit the
USCIS Alien Registration Requirements page
.
February 20, 2025: Revocation of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti
On February 20, 2025, Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem modified the existing
Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation for Haiti
. This amendment affects the registration period for new applicants, which now extends until August 3, 2025, to maintain protection under this status. Current and potential beneficiaries are advised to consult with a licensed immigration attorney to assess their eligibility and to explore their legal options.
February 1, 2025: Revocation of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Venezuela
On February 1, 2025, Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem terminated the
2023 TPS designation for Venezuela
. Beneficiaries of the 2021 Venezuela TPS designation will remain valid through September 10, 2025, after which another determination may be made. Current beneficiaries of TPS may wish to seek immigration counsel from a licensed immigration attorney to determine their options.
Background Information on Potential Changes to Visa and Immigration Policies
As the new White House administration transitions into office on January 20, 2025, some of you may have questions or concerns about potential changes to U.S. visa and immigration policies. IU Global closely monitors immigration and visa policies as well as any proposed changes that may impact the international students, scholars, employees, and dependents we serve on all campuses. This includes shifts in policy or regulatory changes proposed by federal agencies, such as the Department of Homeland Security, as well as executive actions or presidential proclamations made by the White House.
It is important to note that some policy changes can be implemented quickly, while others may take significant time to move through the regulatory process. IU Global consults with legal and immigration experts to analyze and understand any changes that arise.
Remember that immigration policies can change quickly and entry to the U.S. is always at the discretion of the officer at the Port of Entry. Re-entry to the U.S. is never guaranteed. If you have concerns about being able to enter the U.S. due to potential changes in immigration policy, you would want to plan your travel accordingly.
To keep the IU community informed, IU Global will update this page with any relevant changes and send direct communications when immediate updates are necessary. Additionally, forums or webinars may be scheduled to clarify specific changes impacting the international community. While we cannot predict future policy changes, we are committed to clarifying the implications of new regulations or policies and how they may affect you. To avoid misinformation, we will refrain from addressing pending legislation, speculative reports, or unverified information circulating in the media or on social platforms.
Potential Travel Restrictions
On January 20, 2025, President Trump
signed an executive order
requesting that a report be submitted to his administration within 60 days. Depending on the results of this report, travel to the United States for citizens of specific countries could be restricted or delayed.
IU Global will continue to monitor this executive action and communicate with affected populations should any travel restrictions be instated.
Find your campus resources
If you have questions, please reach out to your international student/scholar advisor at the links below.
Indianapolis
Student and Scholar Advising staff for IU Indianapolis, Columbus, and Fort Wayne
Bloomington
Student and Scholar Advising staff for IU Bloomington, East, Kokomo, Northwest, and Southeast
South Bend
Student Advising staff for IU South Bend
For Faculty
For Staff
For Students
Mobility Updates
Policies
Immigration & Visa Updates