[Source URL]: https://global.iu.edu/partnerships/faculty-partner-grant/index.html

Home
International Partnerships
Faculty Grants
Primary Partner Faculty Grant
Enhance your research and build connections around the world
IU Global offers funding to faculty and librarians interested in participating in research projects with one of
IU’s primary partner institutions
. The duration of experience is variable depending on the applicant’s goals but applicants should expect to propose a stay that is no less than two weeks but no more than one month.
This grant process is competitive and priority will be given to applicants who have not received funding support from IU Global over the past three years for research or creative activity.
To apply, you must be a tenure-line faculty member, librarian, or research scientist/scholar at an IU campus. If you’re a non-tenure-line faculty member whose evaluation criteria for promotion includes research or creative activity, you are also eligible with an explanation in the letter of support from your dean or chair. Faculty members in Visiting or Emeritus status are not eligible for these grants, nor are graduate students or academic specialists.
Participants receive funding to cover airfare and a reasonable living stipend.
Application Guidelines
To apply, you should prepare a brief proposal (maximum 1,500 words, double-spaced, 12-point font) that describes your intended activities before starting the online application.
Proposed activities may include conducting research, engaging in creative activity, consulting with colleagues, or offering lectures or short courses. You should indicate how your proposed activities are important to your professional development, the development of a school or departmental affiliation, or the development of the partner institution.
Proposals for research or creative activity should include an outline of the project and should specifically identify local resources you would employ or engage. If you propose to offer lectures or a short course, you should provide confirmation that your topics are of interest to colleagues at the partner institution.
You should identify a counterpart at the partner institution with whom you would like to work prior to completing the application. IU Global expects a letter of invitation from the potential host at the partner institution as well as a letter of support from your chair or equivalent unit representative. You are required to upload a copy of your CV.
Application deadlines are Oct 1, Feb 1, Apr 1, & Jul 1.
Please apply at least twelve weeks in advance of your proposed travel. Awards for travel scheduled to take place in late spring semester or summer are expressly contingent upon your continuing employment at IU the following academic year.
Any questions about this grant should be directed to Seth Walker at
partner@iu.edu
.
Ready to apply?
Before beginning the application, make sure you have the following documents available to upload in PDF format:
Narrative statement
Curriculum vitae
Letter of endorsement/support from your chair (or other relevant unit representative)
Invitation letter from a colleague at the partner university
Other supporting document(s)
Application deadlines: Oct 1, Feb 1, Apr 1, & Jul 1
Apply for the Primary Partner Faculty Grant
Apply using the OVPIA Faculty Grant Application
Selection Process
Applications are reviewed by a committee of faculty members with diverse disciplinary backgrounds. Reviewers score each application based on the strength of the proposal. In particular, reviewers will consider the extent to which an applicant’s program participation will advance the proposed research, enhance professional development, or further collaboration with the partner institution.
Types of Collaboration
Primary University Partners
Registry of Agreements
Create or Renew Agreements
Faculty Grants
Graduate Student Grant