[Source URL]: https://global.iu.edu/partnerships/graduate-partner-grant/index.html

Home
International Partnerships
Graduate Student Grant
Primary Partner Graduate Student Grant
International opportunities for graduate research and study
IU Global offers funding to graduate students, primarily doctorate level, interested in participating in research, creative activity, or career development projects at one of
IU’s primary partner institutions
.
Graduate students that receive this award will participate in up to one semester (not to exceed five months) of research, creative activity, or career development projects at one of IU’s primary partner institutions outside the United States.
Please note: This grant does not support course enrollment at the partner institution or short-term credit bearing education abroad programs. This program does not facilitate or guarantee a visa. As part of the application process, applicants should consider visa regulations and feasibility of visa process for their country of destination.
IU Global will provide mobility awards of up to $10,000 intended to cover roundtrip economy airfare, a modest stipend for room & board, and international health insurance. The award amount will be dependent on airfare to location, duration of program, and cost of living. This award will be disbursed directly to student’s bursar account. These IU Global mobility awards do not carry an IU fee remission.
Eligibility
All Indiana University graduate students are eligible for this grant, regardless of discipline, department, campus, or nationality. To be eligible, applicants must:
Be enrolled in a degree-seeking graduate program leading to a terminal degree at Indiana University
Preference will be given to students who have completed at least two years of doctoral coursework prior to the beginning date of proposed activity including at least one year in residence at IU
Be in good academic and disciplinary standing
Frequently Asked Questions
Application Requirements
All applications will need the following:
Recommendation letter from an advisor or director of graduate studies:
Outlining how this experience is a key component to their academic goals.
Confirming that the applicant meets foreign language and cultural proficiency requirements to conduct research abroad.
Proposal of approximately 600-900 words (double-spaced, 12-point font, one-inch margins) describing your intended activities for study, research, and/or professional development. In the proposal you should make a compelling case for how this opportunity will constitute an integral part of a well-conceived degree program.
Letter of support from primary partner confirming their intention to host you during the stay and facilitate any required visa applications, if necessary.
Overseas Study Advisory Council
committee approval if applicant is travelling to a
Level 3 Department of State
travel advisory country.
Application deadline
The deadline for activities occurring in the spring term is
October 1.
The deadline for activities occurring in summer or fall terms is
March 1.
Apply for the Primary Partner Graduate grant
For more information, review our
graduate student grant FAQs
or email
partner@iu.edu.
Students are not eligible for this grant if they are receiving funds from another source for the same purpose and during the same award period that fully cover the costs of the proposed activity. Permission to combine an OVPIA grant with other funding will be done on a case-by-case basis.
Types of Collaboration
Primary University Partners
Registry of Agreements
Create or Renew Agreements
Faculty Grants
Graduate Student Grant