[Source URL]: https://global.iu.edu/partnerships/types.html

Home
International Partnerships
Types of Collaboration
Types of Collaboration
Common types of international collaborations
Academic units at IU can collaborate on international activities, programs, or projects with institutions of higher education or other organizations in a variety of ways. The descriptions of the more common collaborative activities on this page can help IU faculty and staff assess the feasibility of a collaboration before
proposing a new agreement
.
Contact the international partnerships team at
partner@iu.edu
to schedule a consultation.
Exchange programs
Undergraduate, graduate, and faculty exchange programs each have a number of requirements and factors to consider.
Undergraduate exchange programs
Exchange programs for undergraduates should be tuition neutral. IU students pay their regular tuition and mandatory fees to IU. Those costs are waived for incoming exchange students, who pay tuition and fees to their home institution. It is, therefore, imperative that equity in exchange participation be maintained over a three-year period.
Participants from a partner university must apply and be admitted to Indiana University as nondegree students. They must meet all standard admission requirements, including English language proficiency. During their stay at IU, students must maintain full-time enrollment (a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester).
Questions to consider
Who is responsible for the administration of the exchange program?
Is the partner a peer institution that complements the academic strengths of IU?
What is the anticipated demand for the program?
Does the partner operate on a similar academic calendar?
Does the partner have services and resources to host international students?
Does the partner offer a sufficient number of courses in English each semester?
Are there foreign language requirements to participate in the program?
What specific courses are transferrable?
How much will the program cost participants?
Is on-campus housing available, or is housing assistance provided?
Are there known or potential safety and security issues in the host country or city?
What is the process by which students will be selected for the program?
What are the admission requirements and processes?
What are the minimum academic requirements for program participants (e.g., credit hours per semester)?
Graduate exchange programs
Exchange programs for graduate students may be configured for two types of students: nondegree students who maintain full-time enrollment and visiting research scholars.
Nondegree students enrolled full-time in courses
This type of program follows the requirements for undergraduate exchanges. Students must maintain full-time enrollment (full time for graduate students is a minimum of 8 credit hours each semester).
Visiting research scholars
This type of program generally follows the requirements for faculty exchanges. Visiting research scholars may enroll in or audit one or two courses as long as such courses are not the primary purpose of their visit.
Scholars who intend to enroll in courses for credit must apply to the University Graduate School’s
continuing nondegree program
and must also pay application fees, international services fees, credit hour fees, and mandatory fees. Scholars who intend to audit courses should review the
registration instructions for auditing
.
Faculty exchange programs
Academic units at IU may seek approval for faculty exchange programs with current or prospective partners.
Questions to consider
Who is responsible for the administration of the exchange program?
What is the anticipated demand for the program?
What is the length of the exchange program (one month, one semester)?
What is the process to nominate a scholar?
Is the home institution or the participant responsible for certain expenses (airfare, housing, meals)?
Will participants receive any financial support from the host institution?
What are participants expected to do during their stay at the host institution?
Collaborative education programs
Collaborative education programs can offer student recruitment opportunities, increase IU’s visibility in other countries and with international institutions of higher education, and foster faculty research collaboration. Academic units at IU may consider any of the following to diversify their international engagements.
Degree-granting collaborative education programs
Academic units may structure opportunities for students at international institutions of higher education to earn a degree at Indiana University.
Dual and joint degrees pose reputational risks to IU and, therefore, must be carefully considered. Such degrees are approved only with
primary partners of IU
or with leading peer institutions that have parallel strengths in a particular field of study. These programs involve a two-way flow of students, meaning that they are open to students from both IU and the partnering institution, and require substantial collaboration between faculty members. Joint degrees involve collaboration by an IU academic unit and a partner institution to offer a degree program that neither would have the resources to offer without combining expertise and instruction; upon completion of a joint degree program, both institutions' names appear on the diploma. Joint degrees are considered new degrees and must be approved by the Board of Trustees. Because of their complexity and the time commitment required for their development and approval, joint degrees are rarely considered by IU academic units.
Cooperative education programs, or facilitated transfer programs, are designed to make the transfer process easier for international students who are interested in earning a degree at IU. A student's home institution, at its discretion, may accept the credits that the student earns at IU and confer a separate degree. These programs may be done with existing partners of IU or in affiliation with a non-partner institution.
Types of dual/joint degrees
Dual undergraduate degree (2+2)
Concurrent enrollment in undergraduate programs, with specified courses counting toward degrees conferred by the partner institution and IU. Students must complete at least 50 percent of all credit hours required for the degree while in residence at IU.
Dual master's degree (1+1)
Concurrent enrollment in master’s degree programs, with specified courses counting toward degrees conferred by the partner institution and IU. Number of transfer credits permitted at IU must adhere to the academic program’s established transfer policy.
Joint degrees
Only one IU academic unit currently offers a joint degree. These degree types are exceptionally rare. Concurrent enrollment at both IU and the partner institution, with specified courses completed at each institution counting toward the established requirements for the joint degree. Students receive one diploma.
Types of cooperative education (transfer) programs
Undergraduate transfer
Students complete one or two years at their home institution and transfer to IU for completion of an undergraduate degree. Students must complete at least 50 percent of all credit hours required for a degree while in residence at IU.
Undergraduate-master's 3+2
Students complete three years at their home institution and transfer to IU for completion of a master's degree. The home institution may count specified courses at IU toward a student’s undergraduate degree.
Undergraduate-master's 4+1
Students transfer graduate level credits to IU completed in the fourth year at their home institution and finish the remaining credits for a master’s degree at IU. Best option for professional master’s programs.
Planning process for dual/joint degree and transfer programs
Considering the potential difficulties
Content sequencing issues; for undergraduates, limited general education content at the student’s home institution may mean that the junior year experience at IU needs to be restructured from the norm
Imbalance in student demand for dual degrees
Language issues for students; need to build in time for English support courses (at IU Indianapolis this is called English for Academic Purposes, or EAP)
Faculty concerns about the program
Institutional differences in quality assurance
Issues of academic freedom with the international institution or organization
Mismatch in institutional goals and motivations
Legal concerns, such as financial liabilities, taxation rules, and local government regulations
Professional disciplines tend to be more attractive; not all academic disciplines equally attractive to students
Need to implement an administrative structure to manage the program at the unit level, taking into consideration resource constraints
For 3+2 programs, consider the complexity of managing admission/visa status between year 4 and year 5
Assessing the requirements
Positive, intensive communication with partners is imperative throughout the whole process
Physical visits by staff, administrative leadership, or faculty of your unit are highly encouraged
Alignment with your school’s accreditation policies, school and campus admission requirements, and transfer credit practices should be assured
At least half, if not more, of the credits for the IU degree must be issued by IU
Undergraduate students must meet the general education requirements of IU
Sustainable, deep support of the program by your unit’s administrative leadership and faculty (not dependent on one or two people) is necessary
For undergraduate research experiences, assess if the program will be funded by the IU department/lab or if students will be required to enroll in research/internship credit
Setting up the program
Understand IU’s approval process, your school’s accreditation policies, and your unit’s requirements
Do course mapping with course equivalencies and outline a sample plan of study
Consider transfer scholarships as a recruitment incentive (may need campus support)
Take into account differences in teaching methodologies
Consider the English language abilities of incoming students
Implementing the program
Marketing and recruiting students for the program (the responsibility of your unit and the international institution)
Processing students into the program
Supporting students while in the program
Other types of collaborative education programs
Visiting student programs
: Students from an international university spend a semester or academic year at IU as full-time non-degree seeking students or as participants in special short-term programs (for credit or non-credit). Student must be admitted to IU and meet all admissions standards, including English language proficiency. The international university may be affiliated with IU solely for the purposes of the visiting student program or may be an existing partner.
Summer research experience
: Undergraduate students from a partner institution come to IU, typically after their third year, for a research experience, ranging from a six-week summer to a full semester placement, in a lab setting (commonly in the hard sciences, though not limited to those disciplines). Departments and/or labs at IU may provide funding for the participating students
, or alternatively, require registration in research/internship credit
.
Certificate programs
: Academic units at IU may collaborate with international institutions or organizations for the purpose of offering an existing certificate or designing a new one.
Micro-credentials
: Academic units at IU may offer more targeted “bite size” chunks of supplemental education in collaboration with international institutions or organizations that address an identified skills or knowledge gap in a particular profession or field. Micro-credentials may be stackable, and they may include work-based or experiential learning models.
Learn how to propose a new program
Create an agreement
Types of Collaboration
Primary University Partners
Registry of Agreements
Create or Renew Agreements
Faculty Grants
Graduate Student Grant