[Source URL]: https://graduate.indiana.edu/apply/how-to-apply/index.html

Home
Apply
How to Apply
How to Apply
Apply online to join us as a graduate or professional student at Indiana University Bloomington
This application will put you in consideration both for admission to your desired graduate program and for financial aid.
Departments set their own application deadlines. Visit your prospective program’s website to determine when to apply.
Choose a semester and then click “Apply Now”
Select a Term to Apply for
Choose a semester
Summer 2024
Fall 2024
Winter 2024
Spring 2025
Summer 2025
Fall 2025
Winter 2025
Spring 2026
Summer 2026
Fall 2026
Please choose a semester
Apply Now
Select a Semester
Please select a semester before clicking "Apply Now"
**Please note the Graduate Continuing Non-Degree application is linked below.
Admission decisions are made by the specific graduate program, which will inform you about any decisions. Most departments will supply applicants with their Student Identification Number upon admission.
U.S. citizens and international students use the same application. International students must apply online.
Applications fees
For most programs, the application fee is $70 for domestic and international students. The
Kelley School of Business
master’s program operates on a different fee schedule.
The online application fee must be paid via credit card. Applications are not reviewed until the fee is paid.
International applicants
International applicants must apply online. In most cases, international applicants should mail supporting documentation such as transcripts to:
Office of International Admissions
Indiana University
Ferguson International Center
330 N Eagleson Ave
Bloomington, IN 47405
However, some programs are exceptions. Before applying, review the application information for prospective graduate students on the
Office of International Services (OIS) website
to ensure that you follow the proper procedure and send all required materials.
Non-Degree Applicants
If you have a bachelor’s degree and wish to study on a non-degree basis without necessarily concentrating in a single department, you can be admitted as a
continuing non-degree student
.
Additional requirements
In addition to the basic information, many departments will require GRE scores or other tests associated with that program, a personal statement, a transcript from all institutions attended, and letters of reference. Check with your specific program or department for specific requirements.
Personal statement
The personal statement is an opportunity for you to tell us about your academic and career direction and goals.
Be sure that you answer the question that is asked on the application. Make a case for why you will fit into a particular program and what you will be able to contribute rather than just what you hope to receive.
Letters of Recommendation
Please note: each department sets their own recommendation requirements. Please see the graduate eApp for more information.
Start asking for recommendations as early as possible. It can sometimes take professors a long time to complete a recommendation, and they may need a gentle reminder of their commitment to you.
Contact
Questions about admission decisions and written parts of your application should be addressed to the
graduate degree programs
to which you are applying.
The Indiana University Graduate School Bloomington is more than happy to answer questions about the online application, deadlines, and application fees:
Domestic students
Indiana University Graduate School Bloomington
Wells Library
1320 E. Tenth Street, Room E546
Bloomington, IN 47405
Phone: 812-855-8853
grdschl@indiana.edu
International students
Office of International Services
Indiana University
Ferguson International Center
330 N. Eagleson Ave
Bloomington, IN  47405
Phone: 812-855-9086
newtoiu@indiana.edu
Visit the Office of International Services
The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report, containing policy statements, crime and fire statistics for all Indiana University campuses, is
available online
. You may also request a physical copy by emailing IU Public Safety at
iups@iu.edu
or by visiting IUPD on campus.
How to Apply
Continuing Non-Degree Program
Application Fee Waivers
Cost & Aid
Visit Campus