[Source URL]: https://graduate.iu.edu/cybercorps/

Home
CyberCorps
CyberCorps
The CyberCorps scholarship is designed to recruit and train the next generation of cybersecurity professionals to meet the needs of Federal, State, local, and tribal government. This program provides scholarships for cybersecurity undergraduate and graduate (MS or PhD) education funded through grants awarded by the National Science Foundation (NSF). In return for the financial support, recipients must agree to work for the U.S. Government after graduation in a cybersecurity-related position, for a period equal to the length of the scholarship.
What does the CyberCorps scholarship offer?
Scholarship recipients receive:
Two years of support
Academic-year stipends
Tuition & education fees
Professional allowance for travel, professional certification, etc.
Dedicated job fairs
The following graduate programs are associated with the CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Program at Indiana University.
MS in Cybersecurity Risk Management
MS in Secure Computing
PhD in Computer Science
BS in Cybersecurity & Global Policy
BS in Informatics
PhD in Information Systems
MS in Information Systems
Ready to apply?
Requirements
You must be a US citizen.
You must have a 3.2 or higher undergraduate program GPA.
While a student, you will have expectations unique to CyberCorps recipients (such as a mandatory qualified internship, additional required surveys and documentation, travel to Washington, DC, etc.).
You must pursue the technical (Computing) concentration, if your program of interest is the MS in Cybersecurity Risk Management.
Upon graduation, CyberCorps scholarship recipients must work in qualified government employment for as long as receipt of the scholarship.
Failure to meet CyberCorps expectations may result in a payback of the scholarship.
Application Process
If you are interested in applying for the CyberCorps Scholarship for Service, you must indicate "Yes" in the "CyberCorps Scholarship for Service" section of your application for admission to the Cybersecurity Risk Management MS, Secure Computing MS, and/or Computer Science PhD degree program.  You will find this CyberCorps question in the "Program Questions" section of each program's application.
Student Expectations
If you are admitted to at least one of the eligible graduate programs and selected as a CyberCorps scholarship recipient, you will be expected to:
Maintain a 3.4 GPA
Attend a variety of events
Participate in a cybersecurity student organization
Complete the Cybersecurity Clinic
Complete the Cybersecurity Capstone
Pursue the technical (Computing) concentration, if pursuing the MS in Cybersecurity Risk Management.
Complete a CyberCorps-approved government internship
Obtain an associated certification
Submit documentation periodically to the NSF and IU
Participate in 1:1 mentoring with a faculty member
Participate in career advising
Travel to a yearly job fair (COVID-permitting) in Washington, DC
We think you will find your studies at Indiana University to be a rewarding experience and encourage you to contact us for more information.
Contact Us
Apu Kapadia
Scott Shackelford
Joshua Streiff
Find application links to the qualifying cybersecurity programs at Indiana University Bloomington on our
Academic Programs search page
.