[Source URL]: https://graduate.indiana.edu/index.html

Together on your path to excellence
At Indiana University Graduate School Bloomington (IUGSB), we equip you with the tools, resources, and mentorship needed to excel in your graduate education. We are your partner on the way to becoming the next generation of innovators and leaders.
2023 IU Bloomington graduate and professional student enrollment data
5,966
MASTER’S
3,366
DOCTORAL RESEARCH
888
DOCTORAL PROFESSIONAL
Find your next step at the Graduate School Bloomington
Ready to embark on your graduate journey with us? Find resources in the
guide for prospective students
. Explore our wide range of graduate programs, each designed to foster academic growth and professional advancement. Take the first step toward your future:
Why choose IU Bloomington
Degrees and programs
Apply now
Embracing diversity
We are dedicated to creating an inclusive and welcoming environment for all students, regardless of their backgrounds. Learn about our initiatives, programs, and values that promote diversity and foster an inclusive academic community.
Learn about diversity at the Graduate School
Be the voice of your graduating class
2025 Spring Graduate Commencement Student Speaker
One student speaker will address approximately 8,000 attendees at the IU Bloomington Spring Graduate Commencement Ceremony on Friday, May 9, 2025, as the Graduate Student Commencement Speaker. IUB students graduating in May or during the summer are invited to apply.
Learn more and apply
Elevating career paths for graduate students
Our commitment to your success extends beyond the classroom. Explore opportunities such as:
Graduate career coaching
Connect with our career expert for personalized guidance, group coaching, or partnership.
CIRTL@IUB
Learn with the Center for the Integration of Research, Teaching, and Learning (CIRTL).
Office of Postdoctoral Affairs
Find your community through the office.
Ph.D. Career Diversity Symposium by IUGSB
In the 2023 symposium, we explored multiple career pathways for graduate students in government, NGOs, and non-profit organizations, featuring a keynote speech by Sydney L. Morton, the Associate Director of Global Communications at the International Rescue Committee.
Learn about the symposium
My favorite academic accomplishment since I enrolled as a Ph.D. student in Science Education has been working in a research team with one of my faculty—Dr. Valarie Akerson—on the Nature of Science and getting to know science from another lens. Also, by participating in the Saturday Science Program, I not only enhance my passion for science education but also explore ways to make Science more fun.
— Shukufe Rahman, Ph.D. in Science Education
Read my story
Explore more student stories
Explore more
Fellowships and awards
Ombudsperson
Student life and support
Events
Contact us