[Source URL]: https://graduate.indiana.edu/apply/how-to-apply/fee-waivers.html

Home
Apply
How to Apply
Application Fee Waivers
Application Fee Waivers
Get a fee waiver or reduced fee when you apply
You might be eligible for an application fee waiver when you apply to a graduate program at Indiana University. Please find information about the eligibility criteria, different types of fee waivers available, and how to obtain them. Whether you are a participant in specific programs, a current volunteer, or meet other eligibility requirements, we are here to help you navigate the application process.
Eligibility for fee waivers
The Graduate School Bloomington is responsible only for application fee waivers for IUGSB graduate programs. Check the list of
graduate degree programs
to verify eligibility of your program.
Eligibility criteria
IUB applicants must meet at least
ONE
of the following criteria to be eligible for an application fee waiver:
Participant in a program:
You have participated in a program directed by a program leader that prepares underrepresented students to earn a Ph.D. or M.F.A. and pursue a career in teaching and research at the college or university level.
Specific IU recruitment events:
You have participated in the Graduate School programs called Getting You Into IU, IU Summer Research program or the ISURP program.
Volunteer service:
You are a volunteer in the Vista/Peace Corps or AmeriCorps.
Military status:
You are a veteran, a member of Reserve or National Guard, or a current member of the US Armed Forces (please answer the Military Status question on the application).
Distinguished fellowship:
You are a recipient of a distinguished fellowship, defined as an award that is highly competitive, of significant monetary value (i.e., annual stipend of $20,000 or greater), and multi-year. Examples include the Ford Foundation Predoctoral Fellowship, the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, and the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship.
Fee waiver options based on application status
Students who have
previously applied to a graduate program on the Bloomington campus
may be eligible for a reduced application fee waiver when applying to a second graduate program in Bloomington. If you are applying to a
dual degree program
, you may be eligible for an application fee waiver for the full amount.
If you meet one of the requirements below, please email
grdschl@iu.edu
with the detailed reasoning. If you qualify, you will receive a coupon code to apply.
If you are applying to a dual program in two departments, only one application fee is required.
If you are currently enrolled in a graduate program and are applying to a second program in the same school, you are eligible for a reduced application fee of $35.
If you previously paid an application fee to a school within the past twelve months and are re-applying or was previously enrolled in a program and are re-applying, you are eligible for a reduced application fee in the amount of $35.
Fee waiver options based on membership, recruitment programs, or volunteer experience
Please note that these waivers are available for U.S. citizens and permanent residents only, and each applicant is allowed one fee waiver.
Fee waiver for membership in specific organizations
If you qualify for the Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program application fee waiver, please forward a letter from your director to
grdschl@iu.edu
. Upon qualification, you will receive a fee waiver code to enter into your application.
Participation in one of the following organizations may also qualify you for a fee waiver. Please complete the BTAA Fee Waiver application, and if you qualify, you will receive a fee waiver code for your application:
Big Ten Academic Alliance – Summer Research Opportunity Programs (BTAA)
Gates Millennium Scholars Program (GMS)
Institute for Recruitment of Teachers Program
Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP)
Minority Access to Research Careers (MARC)
Post-Baccalaureate Research and Education Program (PREP)
Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Institute (PPIA)
Research Initiative for Scientific Enhancement (RISE)
Fee waiver for specific recruitment programs
Application fee waivers are available for participants in the programs listed below. Please note any special requirements for each program, and if you qualify, you will receive a fee waiver code for your application:
Annual Biomedical Research Conference  (ABRCMS):
Must visit IU recruiter at the annual conference and complete a contact information card.
American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) Conference:
Must visit IU recruiter at the annual conference and complete a contact information card.
BTAA FreeApp:
Must meet the BTAA FreeApp criteria and complete that application along with meeting the IU University Graduate School criteria. The goal of the Big Ten FreeApp program is to increase applicants to Ph.D. and M.F.A. degrees and the professoriate. For more information on this program please visit the
BTAA FreeApp website
.
California Diversity Forum:
Must visit IU recruiter at the annual forum conference and complete a contact information card.
Emerging Researchers National (ERN) Conference in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Conference:
Must visit IU recruiter at the annual conference and complete contact information card.
GEM Fellowship Program:
Must be selected for the GEM Fellows program. Learn more on the
National GEM Consortium website
.
Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS) National Conference:
Must visit IU recruiter at the annual conference and complete contact information card.
University of Liberia:
Must be a current student or alumnus of the University of Liberia. Please complete the education background section of the application before selecting this recruitment program.
Fee waiver for current Vista/Peace Corps or AmeriCorps volunteers
If you have volunteered for at least a year with Vista, Peace Corps, or AmeriCorps (U.S. citizens or Permanent Residents only) within the last two years, please forward a letter of documentation to
grdschl@iu.edu
. If you qualify, you will receive a fee waiver code to enter into your application.
Questions and inquiries
Have questions about application fee waivers? Contact us at
grdschl@iu.edu
.
How to Apply
Continuing Non-Degree Program
Application Fee Waivers
Cost & Aid
Visit Campus