[Source URL]: https://hls.indiana.edu/academics/undergraduate/pathways/cyber-global.html

Home
Academics
Undergraduate
Majors, minors & more
Cybersecurity & Global Policy
Cybersecurity & Global Policy
Addressing challenges of technology and culture
We live in a rapidly changing world where cyber and networked systems have impacted how we engage with and understand each other, world cultures, and geopolitical issues. From global terrorism and securing elections to combating the spread of misinformation and protecting privacy and personal data, understanding the risks and cultural impact of technology policy around the world is more important than ever.
The BS in Cybersecurity and Global Policy— a joint degree between the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies and the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering—provides an in-depth understanding of the technology behind these systems and the implications of social policies around the world.
The program is ranked in the top 25 programs in the country in the most recent rankings by
U.S. News and World Report
.
1.5 million job openings and counting
The public and private sectors are in daily battles to secure networked systems against malicious attackers. Our graduates will enter the job market ready to make an impact in any area of the world thanks to a strong foundation of global knowledge and regional and linguistic expertise gained in the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies and technical skills forged in the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering.
$102,600
MEDIAN ANNUAL WAGES, INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYSTS, BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS
35%
ESTIMATED JOB GROWTH, 2021-2031 VIA BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS
#1
IU'S RANKING IN NUMBER OF FOREIGN LANGUAGES TAUGHT IN THE US
TOP 25
UNDERGRADUATE CYBERSECURITY PROGRAMSUS NEWS AND WORLD REPORT
Gaining policy and technical expertise
Have you ever asked:
What is the impact of living in a world in which communications are not secure?
How can we strengthen the boundaries that protect our sensitive information and privacy?
How do communities and governments respond to technologies that raises doubts about social and political institutions?
How do we preserve human-to-human interactions and the fabric of society that depends on them?
The Cybersecurity and Global Policy degree program—the first of its kind—seeks to answer these questions and more. Students will graduate with a knowledge of the cultural nexus from which cybersecurity challenges emerge and the technological skills to help address them.
Criteria for the major
Declare the BS in Cybersecurity and Global Policy as your major (your UD advisor can help you).
Complete 26 credit hours of coursework toward your degree with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.0.
Satisfy the CASE English Composition requirement
Complete INFO-I 101 Introduction to Informatics with a minimum of a C
Coming with credits? See how your credits count
Ready to take the next step?
Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies
Email the Hamilton Lugar School Recruitment Team to discuss this and other global and area studies degree programs.
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Email the Luddy School Recruitment Team to discuss this and other informatics, computing, and engineering programs.
Want to learn more?
Plan a visit
Are you ready?
Apply now
Undergraduate
Majors, minors & more
Graduate
Foreign Language Studies
Study Abroad
Courses
Peace Corps Prep
Academic Advising
Scholarships