[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/4plus1.html

Home
Programs
4 + 1 Master’s Program
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Add an M.I.S. or M.L.S. to your bachelor’s degree
If you’re a highly motivated undergraduate interested in furthering your education with a master’s degree, consider enrolling in the Library Science 4 + 1 M.L.S. or Information Science 4 +1 M.I.S. programs where you can add an M.L.S. or M.I.S. to your bachelor’s degree with only one additional year of classes. We accept any undergraduate major from IU Bloomington.
How it works
Our 4 + 1 programs allow you to earn your master’s and your bachelor’s in as few as five years while providing a significant cost savings: during your senior year, you’ll be paying for graduate level courses at the undergraduate credit rate. It also allows you to launch your career sooner with a broader range of opportunities available.
To add an
M.I.S.
or
M.L.S.
to your bachelor’s degree, 36 hours of graduate-level coursework is required.
You’ll meet the credit requirements for your bachelor’s degree by the end of your senior year (120 credits), in addition to 12 of your 36 graduate-level credits.
Most students earn the remaining 24 graduate-level credits the following year.
Note that this program is for the most accomplished undergraduates; many, but not all, of the students who enroll are on track to complete their undergraduate programs in less than four years.
Eligibility
You must:
be a current undergraduate student enrolled at IU Bloomington (all IU Bloomington majors accepted).
have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.2 at IUB.
have at least 12 credit hours available during senior year to take graduate-level courses.
By the time you apply, you should have completed:
all general education requirements
at least 60 credits towards your undergraduate degree.
Review your degree requirements
All ILS degree requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your degree requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
Deadlines
To apply for a 4+1 program, you must be a current undergraduate student at Indiana University.
Contact us
to start a conversation about enrolling. If the advisor determines that you have met the admission requirements, they will provide you with an invitation code which will give you access to the application as well as an fee waiver code.
Students should apply during their junior year.
June 1 – Applications open
January 1 – Priority deadline
April 1 – Final deadline
How to apply
To apply to an ILS program, you'll submit your
Indiana University Graduate CAS application online
.
Application materials
GPA of 3.2 (No GRE)
Personal goals statement (min. 500 words)
Transcripts
At least one letter of recommendation
Resume/CV
International students
To apply for the Library Science 4 + 1 M.L.S. or Information Science 4 + 1 M.I.S. programs, you will need to change your immigration documents from undergraduate to graduate status.
To do this, submit the New Degree Program e-form via Atlas by April 1 of the year before you start the M.I.S. or M.L.S., and contact the
IU Office of International Services
if you have any questions about this process.
Questions about this program?
Contact us
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies