[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/minor-intelligence-studies.html

Home
Programs
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies
What is intelligence studies?
For purposes of national security or competitive intelligence, practitioners in intelligence studies work with information that may not be authoritative or reliable, that may be deceptive, or may lack context.
By focusing on the critical thinking skills of evaluation, you’ll learn to collect and critique the perspectives, biases, and contexts of sources before utilizing them for analysis. You’ll utilize standard analytical tools to discern the cognitive biases of intelligence collectors, other analysts, decision makers, and even yourself in circumstances when time is short and information is lacking.
Because collecting information is not a value-free activity, you’ll also learn to recognize the legal and ethical issues surrounding surveillance, moles, terrorists, national security, and data collection for more benign purposes such as marketing, social science, and humanities research.
Questions about this minor?
Email Carol Chosky, the ILS Director of Undergraduate Studies, at
cchoksy@iu.edu
.
Review your degree requirements
The requirements for this minor are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you began, or plan to begin, taking courses for this minor.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
Possible careers
Since 9/11, the fields of intelligence and security have exploded. With a minor in intelligence studies, you can expect job opportunities with the federal government, the military, or with private government contractors.
Combined with majors such as
computer science
,
informatics
, or language and culture studies—particularly those offered by the
Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies
—you would also be well-suited for careers within the intelligence community or with contractors for the intelligence community, or within the private industry in competitive intelligence, where you'd work to protect corporations against corporate and industrial espionage.
Questions about this minor?
Contact us
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies