[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/specializations/index.html

Home
Programs
Specializations
Specializations
Hone your expertise by choosing a specialization
Choosing to specialize in one of the following areas of study will be a rewarding pursuit for
Master of Information Science (M.I.S.)
and
Master of Library Science (M.L.S.)
students.
While your core course requirements will help you develop a solid foundation of knowledge, a specialization allows you to nurture your unique interests, focus your education, build expertise, and access more advanced career opportunities.
Announcing a new specialization!
Our specialization in digital content, curation, and collections (DC3) is a new program of study available to students enrolled in the Master of Library Science and Master of Information Science programs. This specialization is intended to serve the needs of our students interested in the creation and management of digital content and data. This specialization is available as of the fall 2020 semester.
The DC3 specialization is designed to prepare students for careers as professionals involved in the creation and management of digital content, the systems that support the creation and management of digital content, and the social and organizational contexts in which digital content is used and managed.
In addition to their foundation courses, MLS students complete a 21-credit program of study while MIS students complete an 18-credit program of study (reflecting differences in core course requirements for each degree program).
This specialization replaces the specializations in digital curation and digital libraries, which will no longer be offered. Students in either of these specializations may opt to complete their specializations or switch to the DCE3 specialization.
Learn more about specialization requirements by selecting an option below.
M.I.S specializations
Data science
Learn how to curate, analyze, and manage big data
Digital content, curation, and collections
Learn about the creation and management of digital content and data, the systems that support them, and the contexts of use.
Digital humanities
Bridge the gap between technology and literature, religion, art, history, and more
Information architecture
Learn how to develop and manage content systems in support of user understanding
Information technology leadership
Help organizations make smart decisions about information technology
M.L.S. specializations
Archives and records management
Learn about preservation, records management, digital curation, and more
Art librarianship
Introduce more people to the power and beauty of art
Children's and young adult services
Connect young people to new information and ideas
Data science
Learn how to curate, analyze, and manage big data
Digital content, curation, and collections
Learn about the creation and management of digital content and data, the systems that support them, and the contexts of use.
Digital humanities
Bridge the gap between technology and literature, religion, art, history, and more
Information architecture
Learn how to develop and manage content systems in support of user understanding
Music librarianship
Discover a career path that combines your interest in libraries and music
Rare books and manuscripts librarianship
Learn how to preserve and protect rare pieces of history and culture
Explore more options
Dual degrees
Ph.D. in Information Science
Accelerated master’s degrees
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies