[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/master-information-science.html

Home
Programs
Master of Information Science
Master of Information Science
Launch a career designing, developing, and managing information technologies
To successfully create, manage, and protect information systems and technologies, you must first understand their use within social, cultural, and organizational contexts.
As a Master of Information Science (M.I.S.) student, you will take a holistic approach to information science, working in the space where information, technology, and people intersect.
From IT leadership, system analysis and design to information architecture, user experience design, and everything in between, your M.I.S. education will prepare you for a successful career designing, managing, and consulting about information and communication technologies (ICT).
The M.I.S. degree is
accredited
by the American Library Association (ALA).
Let's stay in touch!
We want to hear from you! The Luddy School is here to answer any questions you may have, and we’re more than happy to guide you down your path to tomorrow.
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Kaitlyn Owens
Master of Information Science
Today
Evaluating the user needs and business objectives of a local non-profit’s website and redesigning it from the perspective of an information architect.
Tomorrow
Combining user experience design with intelligence studies to solve complex problems within a government, academic, or non-profit setting.
Learn more about intelligence studies
2022 career outcome data
100%
of our M.I.S. grads secured employment or continued education within 12 months of graduation
$74,534
average full-time starting salary for M.I.S. grads (2021 and 2022 cohorts)
700+
companies recruit at Luddy, including Qualtrics, Eli Lilly, Deloitte, Cherry Baekert, Amazon Web Services, IBM
Learn foundational skills and develop expertise in the field of your choosing
Under the guidance of our accomplished
faculty
, you’ll learn the fundamentals of information science—from database design and information architecture to organizational informatics.
The program couples best-practices training in the management and use of ICT with exposure to current information management and systems research. Strong emphasis is placed on the socio-technical, cultural, policy, and ethical issues involved in designing and developing ICT, in addition to the essential career development skills—including written and oral communication, team building, analysis, and critical thinking—that are necessary for assuming management positions in business, nonprofit, academic, and government organizations.
To build expertise in the field of your choosing, you’ll also have the opportunity to
specialize
in one of seven different knowledge domains, including information technology leadership, front-end development, data science, and digital humanities.
Review your degree requirements
All ILS degree requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your degree requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
Get guidance and support from your faculty advisor
In addition to working closely with experienced M.I.S.
faculty
during your coursework and
research
, you’ll be assigned a faculty advisor as soon as you’re admitted into the program.
Your advisor will help you build your course schedule each semester to ensure that your courses match your evolving academic and professional interests.
Want to earn two degrees instead of one?
Add an M.L.S. to your M.I.S.
Explore other dual degree options
Find other ways to meet the Luddy Graduate team
Meet Us
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies