[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/master-library-science.html

Home
Programs
Master of Library Science
Master of Library Science
Prepare for a career as a librarian or information professional
As a student in the Master of Library Science (M.L.S.) degree program at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, you will train to enter a profession that proudly conserves, transmits, and gives access to true information for the purpose of preserving and advancing our world’s cultural, social, and scientific knowledge.
The history of record keeping and information institutions goes back thousands of years. Without reliable documents and data—and the professionals trained to maintain them—civilizations cannot flourish.
Backed by a strong digital focus, Luddy’s master’s degree in library science prepares you to work skillfully and confidently in a quickly evolving information landscape.
The M.L.S. degree is
accredited
by the American Library Association (ALA).
Let's stay in touch!
We want to hear from you! The Luddy School is here to answer any questions you may have, and we’re more than happy to guide you down your path to tomorrow.
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Degree outcomes and careers
Develop the skills you need to navigate complex information systems
The M.L.S. degree curriculum gives you opportunities to gain hands-on experience working with traditional documentary forms, such as rare books, manuscripts, and archives.
You’ll take a broad look at cultural and scientific documentation and data through your coursework. Both in the classroom and out, emphasis will be placed on the social values and technical advances that have influenced, and will continue to influence, our role as information professionals.
Almost all of our students in the Master of Library Science program work at on-campus libraries and documentary institutions while attending classes, such as the world-famous
Lilly Library
and the
Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology
. Students have also interned for employers such as the
Library of Congress
and the
Smithsonian Institution
.
Master of Library Science outcomes (Class of 2024)
100%
of M.L.S. grads found jobs or continued their education within 12 months of graduating (90% knowledge rate)
$50,502
Average full-time starting salary
700+
companies recruit at Luddy, including Indiana University, Indiana Archives and Records Administration (IARA), Manhattan School of Music, Monroe County History Center, The Grolier Club
Review library science degree requirements
The requirements for the M.L.S. degree include 36 credit hours of study.
Degree requirements for the Master of Library Science are listed in the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering academic bulletin. Choose the bulletin that represents the year you started or plan to start your program to review the specific requirements.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
Research opportunities for master’s students
The Department of Information and Library Science (ILS) is home to many faculty and student-led research projects that explore real-world problems relating to documentation, information science, social informatics, and data science.
Contributing to research projects during your Master of Library Science program is a fantastic way to connect with peers and faculty and gain experience that advances your career possibilities.
Learn more about the ILS research initiatives and how to get involved.
Get guidance and support from your faculty advisor
In addition to working closely with experienced
Master of Library Science faculty
through your coursework and
research
, you’ll be assigned a faculty advisor as soon as you’re admitted into the program.
Your advisor will help you build your course schedule each semester to ensure that your courses match your evolving academic and professional interests.
Ways to fund your M.L.S. tuition
There are many financial aid opportunities available for students in the Master of Library Science program. When you apply, you’ll be considered for merit-based scholarships by the ILS department. We’ll also help you navigate fellowships, grants, diversity aid, and assistance from sources outside of the school.
Learn about how to fund your library science degree.
Complement your M.L.S. with an Information Science degree
In today’s world, a working knowledge of data management and information systems is a massive support to the skills you learn in the master’s degree in library science.
Luddy offers the option to add a
Master of Information Science (M.I.S.)
to your M.L.S. at any point during the degree program. Developing a wide range of skills and experience utilizing emerging technologies makes your background even more compelling to future employers.
Want to earn two degrees instead of one?
Add an M.I.S. to your M.L.S.
Explore other dual degree options
Meet the Luddy Graduate team
Meet Us
Apply to the Master of Library Science degree program
The Indiana University Luddy School’s Master of Library Science (M.L.S.) degree program will prepare you to excel in the key roles of library professionals, from managing special collections to assisting patrons and more.
If you’re ready to take the next step,
learn how to apply
and think about
scheduling a visit
. Or,
apply now
.
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies