[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/certificate-information-architecture.html

Home
Programs
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Pursue or advance a career in information architecture
The Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture (GCIA) is designed to provide a comprehensive introduction to the field of information architecture: the process of planning, overseeing, implementing, and managing the growth of content systems in support of user understanding.
You’ll gain practical experience in real-world situations, and complete the program prepared to pursue or advance a career working with digital libraries, websites, databases, information retrieval systems, educational software, and even games.
Learn how to apply
Begin your application
Develop a toolbox of core skills and relevant experience
The GCIA offers essential knowledge on the effective practice of information architecture, including:
Representing and organizing resources in conceptual space
Developing and applying controlled vocabularies, including taxonomies
Designing and organizing systems based on the principles of human-computer interaction and usability
Managing projects and working within web management and development teams
These skills are brought together in a capstone project that requires a pragmatic application of skills and knowledge to solve a real-world problem.
Review your degree requirements
All ILS degree requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your degree requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
Consider all your options
The
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
, in which the Department of Information and Library Science is housed, offers a variety of
graduate level certificates
. Make sure you consider out all of your options.
Or, take your education to the next level by earning a
Master of Information Science
(M.I.S.) or
Master of Library Science
(M.L.S.) degree, with a
specialization in information architecture
.
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies