[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/research/index.html

Home
Research
Research
Work at the frontier of information and library science
At ILS, we believe that problem solving and innovation require a myriad of integrated perspectives. That’s why as a student here, you’ll work across disciplines and alongside our esteemed
faculty
to create new knowledge on the frontier of information and library science.
ILS research in the news
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Luddy School study to help women achieve peak athletic performance
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
See more news
What our students and faculty are researching
Our areas of study are diverse but focused; together, we seek to respond to real-world challenges and build new paths toward cultural, economic, and environmental advancement.
Below you’ll find a list of current student and faculty research areas. To learn more about specific faculty research projects,
explore the ILS faculty directory
.
Documentation, library, and information science
Theory and history of documentation and library and information science
Data curation and digital preservation
Archives and record management
Strategic intelligence
Knowledge organization
Cultural informatics and museum informatics
Biodiversity informatics
Knowledge organization
Digital and computational humanities
Text markup
Digital Libraries
Information science/social informatics
Trolling
Intelligence studies
Information policy
Organizational informatics
Critical algorithm theory
Online communities
Computer mediated communication
Linguistic and computational discourse analysis
International information issues
Social media
Social theory of information
Media studies
Intellectual freedom and information/data ethics
Communities of practice
Gender and information technologies
Information behavior
Human computer interaction
Information science/data science
Information retrieval and knowledge portals
Statistical analysis
Machine learning
Natural language processing
Music information retrieval
How to join a research project
To work with a faculty member on his or her research, or to complete an independent study with a particular faculty member, we encourage you to
contact that faculty member
directly.
If you have additional questions about research at ILS, you can contact
Noriko Hara
, the ILS department chair, or
Howard Rosenbaum
, the ILS graduate program director.
Did you know?
ILS faculty are involved in editing and managing a range of academic journals and book series, including:
Digital Humanities Quarterly
Journal of Text Encoding Inititiave
Language@Internet
ILS and affiliated research centers and labs
The Rob Kling Center for Social Informatics
Dedicated to supporting research into information technology and social change.
Library, Ethics, & Justice Lab
Compares different theoretical and methodological approaches to knowledge organization.
Center for Computer-Mediated Communication
Studies human communication through digital media in a broad range of organizational and social contexts.
Institute for Digital Arts & Humanities (IDAH)
Assists librarians and others with digital-methods training, pedagogy, and project planning.
HathiTrust Research Center
Supports researchers who face the technical challenges of a growing digital record of human knowledge.
Learn more about ILS faculty
View our faculty directory
Talks and Lectures
Student Research and Travel Funding