[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/dual-degrees/index.html

Home
Programs
Dual Degrees
Dual Degrees
Earn two master’s degrees simultaneously
ILS collaborates with multiple schools and departments across the IU Bloomington campus to provide you with a diverse range of interdisciplinary dual degree programs.
Each dual program will allow you to graduate in less time and with fewer credits, which makes this a unique, cost-effective opportunity to distinguish yourself as a serious academic or motivated information professional.
Learn more about the dual degree program requirements by selecting an option below.
Dual degree options
M.I.S. and M.L.S.
Can’t decide between earning a Master of Information Science (M.I.S.) or Master of Library Science (M.L.S.) degree? Get the best of both worlds by earning them both simultaneously.
M.I.S. pairings
Central Eurasian Studies (M.A.)
Gain proficiency in a new language and learn about specific Central Eurasian regions by studying indigenous cultures.
Folklore and Ethnomusicology (M.A.)
Become an expert on topics such as the preservation of cultural heritage, databases for disappearing languages, and more.
Latin American and Caribbean Studies (M.A.)
Develop expertise in any number of concentrations, including anthropology, indigenous studies, social movements, gender studies, and more.
Public Affairs (M.P.A.)
Choose from twelve areas of concentrated study, including health policy, information systems, policy analysis, and economic development.
Russian and East European Studies (M.A.)
Develop a broad understanding of the geographic area and its peoples, and examine in depth a topic area that interests you most.
M.L.S. pairings
African American and African Diaspora Studies (M.A.)
Develop a solid base of knowledge for analyzing African American and diaspora experiences.
African Studies (M.A.)
Work with a program that has long been recognized as one of the leading centers for interdisciplinary research in Africa.
Central Eurasian Studies (M.A.)
Gain proficiency in a new language and learn about specific Central Eurasian regions by studying indigenous cultures.
Comparative Literature (M.A.)
Earn a degree from one of the oldest and most comprehensive comparative literature departments in the United States.
English (M.A.)
Become proficient in a variety of reading fields and topics, including literary history, lit theory, form, and genre.
Folklore and Ethnomusicology (M.A.)
Learn how to study, preserve, and share vernacular arts, and the historical, cultural, and social contexts in which they are embedded.
History (M.A.)
Choose from several learning tracks, including ancient history and language acquisition, Jewish studies, and more.
Art History (M.A.)
Dive into the broad background in the study of art history and the theoretical orientations of the discipline.
History and Philosophy of Science and Medicine (M.A.)
Explore a wide variety of approaches to understanding one of the most important conceptual and cultural enterprises of the modern world: science.
Latin American and Caribbean Studies (M.A.)
Develop expertise in any number of concentrations, including anthropology, indigenous studies, social movements, gender studies, and more.
Law (J.D.)
Choose to specialize in information, communications, and privacy law; intellectual property; civil rights and equality; and more.
Musicology (M.A.)
Earn your M.A. from one of the top ranked musicology programs in the nation.
Public Affairs (M.P.A.)
Choose from twelve areas of concentrated study, including health policy, information systems, policy analysis, and economic development.
Russian and East European Studies (M.A.)
Develop a broad understanding of the geographic area and its peoples, and examine in depth a topic area that interests you most.
Let's stay in touch!
We want to hear from you! The Luddy School is here to answer any questions you may have, and we’re more than happy to guide you down your path to tomorrow.
Request more information
Your tomorrow starts today
Plan a visit
Apply online
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies