[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/apply/funding/index.html

Home
How to Apply
Funding Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
How to fund your education
There are many ways that ILS students choose to fund their graduate educations. In many instances,
student loans
are necessary.
We encourage you to explore all of your options. To get started, learn more about the financial aid opportunities that exist just for ILS students.
ILS-specific funding opportunities
Incoming master’s and specialist degree students
Incoming Ph.D. students
Current master’s and Ph.D. students
Other sources of aid
In addition to the remissions, scholarships, and aid offered by the ILS department, Indiana University and other outside organizations have resources available to assist you with funding your degree.
Fellowships, scholarships, and grants
American Association of Law Libraries (AALL) Scholarships
American Association of University Women
American Library Association (ALA) Scholarships
Foreign Language & Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowships
G.I. Bill Benefit Information
GradGrants Center
Graduate and Professional Student Government (GPSG) Awards and Funding
The Graduate School Financial Support
Indiana Library Federation (ILF) Scholarships
Indiana University Librarians Association (InULA) Julianne V. Nilson Scholarship
IU International Enhancement Grants
Indiana University Graduate School Fellowships and Awards
Jay Information Literacy Fellowship
Jorgensen IULMIA Fellowship
LITA (Library and Information Technology Association, ALA) Scholarships
NASIG (North American Serials Interest Group) Scholarships and Awards
Paul Evans Peters Memorial Fellowship (Coalition of Networked Information)
Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans
FinAid Scholarship Search
Smart Student Guide to Financial Aid
Smithsonian Institution Fellowships
Diversity aid resources
Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Programs
American Library Association (ALA) Century Scholarship
E.J. Josey Scholarship Award, Black Caucus of the American Library Association
Indiana University Graduate School Diversity Fellowships
Library and Information Technology Association (LITA) and Library Systems and Services, Inc., (LSSI) Minority Scholarships
Library and Information Technology Association (LITA) and OCLC, Inc. Minority Scholarships
Reforma Scholarships
: The National Association to Promote Literacy and Information Services to Latinos
ALA Spectrum Scholarship Program
Finding a part-time job
At ILS we encourage student employment. There are a number of
part-time jobs on campus and in Bloomington
that will both complement your resume as an ILS student, and help with your expenses. Some student jobs include fee remission.
The coaches at
Luddy Career Services
can help you determine the type of experience that will help accelerate your career.
You can also log in to
Handshake
to find online job postings.
Your tomorrow starts now
Plan a visit
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Funding Opportunities
Plan a Visit