[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/

Advance one of humankind’s greatest endeavors
At the Department of Information and Library Science, you’ll learn how to curate, organize, and disseminate information to make it more useful to local and global communities.
You’ll create systems, preserve traditions and histories, and advance one of the greatest endeavors humans have ever embarked on: the ability to store, retrieve, and share knowledge.
Welcome to ILS.
We see what tomorrow can be, and we shape it every day.
Learn how to apply
Review our admissions requirements, stay ahead of important deadlines, and more.
Select a program
Choose from multiple master‘s programs, a Ph.D., dual degree options, and others.
Explore career paths
Find out how graduates are using their ILS degrees to make a mark in the world.
The Department of Information and Library Science practices rolling admissions.
Apply Now
we Curate
we Preserve
we Curate
we Analyze
we Model
we Test
we Study
we Structure
we Digitize
we Systemitize
we Document
we Classify
we Index
we Query
we Navigate
we see
We see
tomorrow
Earn an ALA-accredited degree
The
Master of Library Science (M.L.S.)
and
Master of Information Science (M.I.S.)
programs are accredited by the American Library Association Committee on Accreditation, with the status of Continued accreditation.
Learn more about our status
See how we assess our programs
Ellen Grace Ogihara
Master of Library Science (M.L.S.), Music Specialization
Today
Working at the Jacob School of Music’s ensemble library to prepare, distribute, and collect sheet music for hundreds of performances a year
Tomorrow
Helping conductors plan programs and expand ensemble library collections so that lesser known or historical pieces of music can be performed at a high caliber
Learn more about Master of Library Science (M.L.S.)
#9
Best library and information studies program,
U.S. News & World Report
8,000
Information and Library Science alumni
31
Specializations and dual degree programs to choose from
The Department of Information and Library Science is accredited by the American Library Association (ALA), and so, the codes of ethics and professional responsibilities of the ALA extend to the education of librarians and other information professionals and to their accredited academic units and programs. Thus, as part of this accreditation, the Department is supported and bound by the following principles of intellectual freedom and diversity.
The department stands by the right and necessity of supporting people from different backgrounds in their expressions and also in their access to information, toward the goal of forming a more inclusive and more just society, nation, and world, and it is opposed to contrary principles and expressions.
http://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom/librarybill
http://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom/librarybill/interpretations/EDI
http://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom
Luddy in the news
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Luddy School study to help women achieve peak athletic performance
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
See more news
Your tomorrow starts now
Plan a visit
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Visit us on social media
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn