[Source URL]: https://ils.indiana.edu/programs/phd-information-science/index.html

Home
Programs
Ph.D. in Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Advance the field of information technology
The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Information Science at IU Bloomington is one of the oldest, continuously running information science doctoral programs in the nation. Our mission is to train the next generation of information scientists—professionals who want to understand, predict, and advance the ways in which people use information systems and communication technologies.
We welcome students from all over the United States and world. Most plan to enter academia. Our alumni have worked at institutions such as the University of North Carolina, UCLA, the University of Hawaii, Kent State University, and the University of Alabama. Other graduates go on to work for organizations like NASA, the Langley Research Center, and Oracle.
Learn about the Ph.D. minor
ILS welcomes doctoral students from all disciplines to consider a minor in information science.
Please send inquiries to
GoLuddy@iu.edu
Learn how to apply
Begin your online application
Generate original research on the topics that interest you most
The Ph.D. in Information Science is designed to prepare you for research and teaching in academia. Your core requirements will help you develop a strong understanding of the research process and what constitutes scholarly research. You’ll also learn to identify and conceptualize significant research problems so that you may undertake new research initiatives and contribute new knowledge to the field.
We encourage you to research the ideas and questions that fascinate you most. Recent areas of concentrated study include, but are not limited to:
Archives
Biodiversity information and culture
Computer-mediated communication
Critical information and library science
Cultural analytics
Cultural heritage informatics
Data and text mining
Digital and computational humanities
Digital curation
Digital libraries
Documentation
eScience
Gender and technology
History of the book, readership, and publishing
Knowledge organization (KO), including classification, ontologies, and metadata
Knowledge sharing
Libraries
Online communities
Philosophy of information and information ethics
Records management
Social informatics
Social media mining
Technology and diversity
Text encoding and digital editions
Regardless of your specific career interests, you will graduate prepared to work as a professional researcher, teacher, and consultant.
Recent Ph.D. dissertations
Discover what our students are researching. Review a list of ILS Ph.D. dissertations dating back to 1968.
See dissertation list
Review your program requirements
Degree requirements for the Ph.D. in Information Science are listed in the University Graduate School academic bulletin.To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your Ph.D. program.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022–23 bulletin
Ways to fund your education
ILS offers funding opportunities for
incoming Ph.D. students
, and
current Ph.D. students
.
Adjunct teaching opportunities are also available as a form of financial assistance.
If you’re interested in teaching contact your committee chair and the chair of the doctoral committee.
Choose a minor
All
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
doctoral students are required to complete either a minor within the school or an approved minor outside the school. Your minor should relate to your research, as determined by your advisory committee.
See Luddy minors
To learn more about Ph.D. minors outside of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, visit the websites of IU Bloomington’s
16 degree-granting colleges and schools
.
Find other ways to meet the Luddy Graduate team
Meet Us
Master of Library Science
Master of Information Science
Ph.D. in Information Science
Dual Degrees
Specializations
4 + 1 Master’s Program
Specialist in Library and Information Science
Graduate Certificate in Information Architecture
Undergraduate Minor in Intelligence Studies