[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/phd-informatics/intelligent-and-interactive-systems.html

Home
Programs
Ph.D. in Informatics
Intelligent and Interactive Systems
Intelligent and Interactive Systems
Are you interested in studying interactions
between people and digital systems and in developing systems that perceive, understand, and interact with people and the environment? The intelligent and interactive systems (IIS) track may be for you. You’ll focus on areas such as:
IIS shapes tomorrow
Watch how our program is making a difference
See IIS in action
Autonomous robots
Human-robot interaction
Wearable and ubiquitous computing
Music and Computation
Motion planning and control
Investigating and building technologies involves understanding relationships between people and computing systems, as well as developing systems that are better able to understand and interact. As an IIS student, you’ll explore theories, develop prototype technologies, and evaluate human responses to and interactions with those technologies.
Learn about related research
The R-House Human-Robot Interaction Lab hosts researchers, students, and visitors interested in studying human-robot interaction (HRI) through the design and evaluation of robotic technologies for everyday use. Lab members explore the connections between HRI, human social behavior and cognition, and the emerging social meanings and consequences through a variety of methods.
Learn about the R-House
Track guide
Summary
Intelligent and Interactive Systems (IIS) is an interdisciplinary field that studies the interactions between humans and digital technologies, and develops intelligent technologies that can interact with humans and their environment. Research and teaching in the field include artificial intelligence, music informatics, computer vision, human-robot interaction, dynamical systems, and cognitive science, among others. Students and faculty explore theories, develop prototype technologies, as well as  evaluating interactions between humans and these technologies.
Intelligent and interactive technologies are becoming an increasingly important part of people’s daily lives. For instance, robots cooperate with humans, enabling them to perform common tasks, while pervasive wearable devices monitor our health habits and daily activities, and cloud-based systems seek to identify the sights and sounds of our surroundings. Investigating and building these technologies involves both understanding the relationship between people and computing systems, as well as technological advances in making computers better able to understand, perceive, and interact with their environment.
The Intelligent and Interactive Systems track in Informatics is a multidisciplinary program that approaches information and communication technology from both technological and human perspectives. Graduate students will have the opportunity to explore a diverse range of research topics, including autonomous robots, computer vision, music informatics, culturally-situated technology design, dynamical systems, human-robot interaction, object and activity recognition, social robotics, video and image understanding, and wearable and ubiquitous computing.
Primary track faculty
Chris Raphael
: Track Director
Music in informatics, artificial intelligence, accompaniment systems, computer generated musical analysis, musical signal processing, modeling of musical interpretation, computer generated musical analysis, data science, machine learning
Randall Beer
Cognitive science, computational and theoretical biology. Understanding how coordinated behavior arises from the dynamical interaction of an animal’s nervous system, its body and its environment. Evolution and analysis of dynamical “nervous systems” for model agents neuromechanical modeling of animals, biologically-inspired robotics, and dynamical systems approaches to behavior and cognition.
David Crandall
Computer vision, object recognition, 3d reconstruction, image processing, artificial intelligence, data mining, machine learning, social media, wearable computers.
Selma Šabanovićić
Human-robot interaction, social robotics, human-centered computing, cross-cultural studies of technology design and use, science and technology studies assistive technology, user-centered design and evaluation.
Justin Wood
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Artificial Intelligence, Complex Networks and Systems, Intelligent Interactive Systems, Machine Learning, Cognitive Science
Chen Yu
Cognitive science, developmental psychology, language learning, embodied social cognition multimodal human-human and human-robot interactions, perception and action, data mining and computational modeling.
Curriculum
Required courses
All courses provided by faculty in the Intelligent and Interactive Systems track, including the I609 Advanced Seminar, are open to and welcome students from other tracks and programs.
A student must successfully complete ninety (90) credit hours of graduate-level course work. The specific track requirements are listed below.
Informatics Core Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I501 Introduction to Informatics (3 cr.)
INFO I502 Human-Centered Research Methods in Informatics (3 cr.)
Seminar Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I609 Seminar I in Informatics (3 cr.)
INFO I709 Seminar II in Informatics (3 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must take I609 and/or I709.
Research Rotation Requirement (6 cr.)
INFO I790 Informatics Research Rotation (3 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must complete two rotations of I790. A third rotation will not count for course credit.
Theory and Methodology Requirement (12 cr.)
NOTE:
These courses must be appropriate for a Ph.D. in Informatics.
Minor Requirements (9-12 cr.)
NOTE:
Typical minors include Cognitive Science, Statistics, Computer Science, and Human-Computer Interaction.
Electives (12-30 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must have all electives approved by the student's advisor and the Director of Informatics Graduate Studies prior to enrolling in the course.
Thesis Reading and Research (minimum of 21 cr. and maximum of 30 cr.)
INFO I890 Thesis Readings and Research
Breadth Requirement
All IIS track students are required to take both a course that will help them develop their technical skills in the field (e.g. artificial intelligence, computer vision, advanced prototyping), and a course that presents the conceptual and human-oriented aspects of the field (e.g. human-robot interaction, embodied cognition). Either course can be taken as their second seminar. The chosen course should be appropriate for the student’s professional development. In this way students will have the ability to communicate across the multiple disciplines that compose the domain of IIS research.
Optional courses
In addition to required courses, faculty in the track offer courses that provide more targeted training is specific areas.
INFO-I 540 – Human Robot Interaction
INFO-I 590 – Vision for Intelligent Robotics
CSCI-B 551 – Elements of Artificial Intelligence
CSCI-B 554 – Probabilistic Approaches to Artificial Intelligence
CSCI-B 657 – Introduction to Computer Vision
CSCI-B 659 – Computer vision for intelligent robotics
COGS-Q 580 - Introduction To Dynamical Systems In Cognitive Science
INFO-I 547 - Music Information Processing: Audio
Additionally, a number of courses taught by other faculty are also relevant to the ISS track:
COGS-Q 511 – Introduction to Embodied Cognitive Sciences
COGS-Q 530 – Programming Methods in Cognitive Science
COGS-Q 550 – Models in Cognitive Science
COGS-Q 551 – Brain and Cognition
COGS Q-560 – Experimental Methods in Cognitive Science
COGS-Q 570 – Behavior-based Robotics
INFO-I 526 – Applied Machine Learning
INFO-I 530 – Field Deployments
INFO-I 534 – Seminar in Human-Computer Interaction
INFO-I 543 – Interaction Design Methods
INFO-I 549– Advanced Prototyping
INFO-I 586 – Artificial Life
INFO-I 590 – Relational Probabilistic Models
CSCI-B 552 – Knowledge Based Artificial Intelligence
CSCI-B 553 – Neural and Genetic Approaches to Artificial Intelligence
CSCI-B 555 – Introduction to Machine Learning
CSCI-B 651 – Natural Language Processing
CSCI-B 659 – Stochastic Optimization for Machine Learning
CSCI-B 659 – Reinforcement Learning for Artificial Intelligence
STAT-S 620 – Introduction to Statistical Theory
STAT-S 657 – Statistical Learning and High-Dimensional Data Analysis
STAT-S 681 – Statistical Machine Learning
STAT-S 682 – Introduction to Graphical Models
STAT-S 710 – Statistical Computing
Typical minors
Cognitive Science, Statistics, Computer Science, Human-Computer Interaction.
Qualifying exam
Written and oral examinations will be decided by the student’s committee based on his or her research interests. A typical exam can consist of writing a survey paper and two shorter papers each reporting on a project or problem assigned by the committee, or it can consist of an annotated bibliography preceded by an essay that describes the student’s interpretation of the relevant literature and how they situate their own interests and work within it. The written portion of the exam is followed by an oral exam to defend the written submissions.
Sample dissertation titles
Since IIS is new, we have so far graduated one doctoral student, Jangwon Lee, in 2018, with a thesis titled “Learning Activities from Human Demonstration Videos” (supervised by Crandall and Šabanović.  Now at ObjectVideo Labs).
IIS core faculty have supervised Ph.D. students in other tracks who have successfully defended, including:
Bambach, Sven (2016). Analyzing hands with first-person computer vision. (Computer Science, supervised by Crandall. Now at Nationwide Children’s Hospital.)
Bennett, Casey (2015). Robotic faces: Exploring dynamical patterns of social interaction between humans and robots. (Informatics, Health Informatics track, supervised by Šabanović. Now at Raiven Healthcare LLC.)
Chen, Liang (2018). Human-interactive Optical Music Recognition and Music Renotation. (Informatics, Music Informatics track, supervised by Raphael. Now at Google.)
Duan, Kun (2014). Conditional Random Field Models for Structured Visual Object Recognition. (Computer Science, supervised by Crandall. Now at Snap, Inc.)
Fraune, Marlena (2018). Examining Effects of Groups and Intergroup Contexts on Human-Robot Interaction. (Cognitive Science and Social Psychology, supervised by Šabanović. Now at New Mexico State University.)
Gu, Yupeng (2015). Creating Expressive Piano Performance using Statistical Models. (Informatics, Music Informatics track, supervised by Raphael.)
Han, Yushen (2013). Score-informed Musical Source Separation and Reconstruction. (Informatics, Music Informatics track, supervised by Raphael. Now at Apple.)
Jin, Rong (2017). Graph-based Rhythm Interpretation in Optical Music Recognition. (Informatics, Music Informatics track, supervised by Raphael. Now at Facebook).
Johnson, Jeffrey (2018). Selective determinism for autonomous navigation in multi-agent systems. (Computer Science, supervised by Hauser and Crandall. Now at Uber.)
Korayem, Mohammed (2015). Social and egocentric image classification for scientific and privacy applications. (Computer Science, supervised by Crandall. Now at CareerBuilder, LLC.)
Lee, Heerin (2017). Collaborative Design for Intelligent Technologies. (Informatics, Computing Culture and Society track, supervised by Šabanović. Now at University of California San Diego).
Lee, Stefan (2016). Data-driven Computer Vision for Science and the Humanities. (Computer Science, supervised by Crandall. Now at Georgia Tech.)
Luo, Jingru (2015). Optimal Motion Planning for Manipulation and Legged Locomotion. (Computer Science, supervised by Hauser. Now at Bosch.)
Xu, Tian (Linger) (2018). Intelligence with Interaction: Understanding coordinated behaviors with developmental computational and robotic approaches. (Computer Science and Cognitive Science, supervised by Yu. Now Postdoc at Indiana University.)
Zhang, Haipeng (2014). Analyzing the Dynamics Between User-sensed Data and the Real World. (Computer Science, supervised by Crandall. Now at IBM Research.)
Zhang, Yajia (2015). Knowledge-driven Motion Planning. (Computer Science, supervised by Hauser. Now at Bosch.)
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Animal Informatics
Bioinformatics
Complex Networks and Systems
Computing, Culture, and Society
Human-Computer Interaction/Design
Health Informatics
Intelligent and Interactive Systems
Security Informatics
Virtual Heritage
Ph.D. Minors