[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/

Informatics is about intersections
It’s about using technology to solve problems by creating unique approaches and strategies to improve healthcare, battle poverty, protect the environment, and so much more.
Analyze customer data to present a better experience for users or offer opportunities for businesses to become more efficient. Construct health information systems that will study the needs of doctors, nurses, patients, and health care organizations. Take technology into the natural world to help map the human genome or develop ways to create clean, renewable energy.
From music to mathematics, from psychology to security, informatics will give you the foundational skills needed to bridge the gap between technology and people. Our programs provide students with the technical and practical knowledge needed to prepare you for a career in a high-demand field.
What will you study?
Get a foundation in informatics and customize your experience with one of our degree programs.
Why does informatics matter?
Learn more about informatics and how it integrates into everyday life.
Where will you work?
Find out how an informatics degree can give you an advantage in your career—whatever field you choose.
we innovate
we analyze
we visualize
we create
we see
We see
tomorrow
Our faculty, your future
From solving complex biological problems to developing next-generation artificial intelligence, our faculty have a breadth and depth of informatics knowledge and experience that’s second to none. Your future is in your hands—and they’re here to help you achieve your goals.
Meet our faculty
Sawyer Collins
Ph.D. in Informatics
Today
Exploring the designs and uses of socially assistive robots to aid humans with depression and enrich the lives of non-human animals.
Tomorrow
Establish a laboratory to continue the development of assistive technologies for various populations.
First
informatics Ph.D. in the United States
96.2%
of our recent 2022 bachelor’s recipients employed or enrolled in graduate school
70%
of our undergraduate students concentrate on informatics and business
Informatics doesn’t just prepare you for a job. It opens the door to a career. Every new technology creates an opportunity for informatics to play a role, creating a tomorrow with endless opportunity and a limitless future.
Informatics will teach you the foundations of how technology works and how you can leverage those foundations on a broader scale to impact the world.
Animal Informatics
Helping animals live better lives through technology
Animal informatics studies how technology designed specifically for animals can improve their lives while also possibly benefiting humans.
Learn more about Animal Informatics
Luddy in the news
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Luddy School study to help women achieve peak athletic performance
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
See more news
Your tomorrow starts now
Plan a visit
Apply today