[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/phd-informatics/human-computer-interaction-design.html

Home
Programs
Ph.D. in Informatics
Human-Computer Interaction/Design
Human-Computer Interaction/Design
Human-computer interaction (HCI) has traditionally been the domain of engineering and psychology. In this track, we approach HCI from the perspective of design. That is, we focus on the ways that design and research cooperate to create openings and insights into emerging design domains; how research contributes to design processes and methods; and how design practices can themselves be a form of research.
In this track, you’ll seek to understand the opportunities and challenges of interactive systems in a way that equally addresses technological possibilities, human needs, and social and cultural contexts and trends. You’ll contribute to the development of design theory, methods, and practice as you conduct research in areas such as:
Design and theory
Computer-supported cooperative work
Social computing
Ethics, values, and critical computing
Social impacts of AI/ML
Usability and evaluation methods
Augmented, virtual, and mixed reality
Design pedagogy and learning systems
Social and organizational views of technology use
Health and wellness technologies
Critical and sustainable computing
Creativity and cognition
This track is designed to change the way you think. You’ll go beyond using technology to solve a problem, to creating and researching technology experiences that will be functional, intuitive, and even delightful for users. With this track, you’ll learn to think like a design researcher. You’ll refine your personal design philosophy and research skills through coursework that:
Teaches you the key history, literature, and research approaches of HCI/d
Introduces you to multiple disciplinary perspectives, research techniques, and design theory concepts
Enables you to explore the socio-technical complexity of implementing technologies in different cultures and context.
Track guide
Summary
Human-computer interaction design (HCI/d) research is geared toward supporting interventions or understandings that bring about better possible futures, as opposed to primarily describing the past or even the present. An HCI/d researcher might ask: What possible futures are open to us, and how might we pursue them? What is “design thinking” and what methods best support design activities? How might digital systems be developed in service of social justice and sustainability? How can design professions be more participatory and democratic? What makes user experiences aesthetic, and how can designers create them?
Human computer interaction design opens up possibilities, such as: massive scale collaborative systems; engagement in online communities of interest and practice; new forms of democratic participation in government; and integration of domestic and health technologies. However, these interactive systems can also contribute to serious social problems, such as concerns about privacy and surveillance, sustainability and addiction, and unequal access due to socioeconomic status, disability, and other social issues. HCI/d researchers seek to understand such opportunities and problems in a way that equally attends to their full socio-technical and critical complexity.
In this track, you’ll seek to understand these opportunities and problems in a way that equally addresses technological possibilities, human needs, and social and cultural context and trends—all in a way that’s oriented toward intervention through design. You’ll contribute to the development of design theory, methods, and practice as you conduct research in areas such as:
Design theory and practice
Computer-supported cooperative work
Social computing
Ethics, values, and critical computing
Social impacts of AI/ML
Usability and evaluation methods
Design pedagogy and learning systems
Social and organizational views of technology use
Health and wellness technologies
Critical and sustainable computing
Creativity and cognition
Primary track faculty
Colin Gray, PhD Track Chair
Ethics and criticality, design theory, UX practice, design pedagogy, learning experience (LX) design.
Elizabeth Kaziunas
Sociotechnical approaches to information systems, ethnographic and critical design approaches, data work/labor, social impacts of AI/ML.
Austin Toombs
Community maintenance, interpersonal relationships, care ethics, identity.
Eli Blevis
Sustainable interaction design, visual thinking, photographic foundations of HCI, design theory, transdisciplinary design.
Erik Stolterman Bergqvist
Interactivity and interfaces, philosophy and theory of design, design thinking.
Affiliated track faculty
Yong Yeol Ahn
Professor of Informatics and Computing
Travis Brown
Senior Executive Assistant Dean of Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Commercialization
Jean Camp
Professor of Informatics
James Clawson
Assistant Professor
Apu Kapadia
Professor of Computer Science
Christena Nippert-Eng
Professor of Informatics
Selma Sabanovic
Professor of Informatics
Patrick Shih
Associate Professor of Informatics
Katie Siek
Professor of Informatics
David Wild
Professor of Informatics and Computing
Justin Wood
Associate Professor of Informatics
Curriculum
Required courses
All courses provided by faculty in the Human-Computer Interaction Design track, including the I609 and I709 Advanced Seminars, are open to and welcome students from other tracks and programs.
A student must successfully complete ninety (90) credit hours of graduate-level course-work. The specific track requirements are listed below.
Informatics Core Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I501 Introduction to Informatics
(3 cr.)
INFO I502 Human-Centered Research Methods in Informatics
(3cr.)
Seminar Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I609 Seminar I (3 cr.)
INFO I709 Seminar II in Informatics (3 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must take I609 and/or I709.
Research and Rotation Requirement (6 cr.)
INFO I790 Informatics Research Rotation (3 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must complete two rotations of I790. A third rotation will not count for course credit.
Theory and Methodology Requirement (12 cr.)
NOTE:
These courses must be appropriate for a Ph.D. in Informatics.
Minor (6-15 cr.)
NOTE:
Typical minors include Inquiry methodology, cognitive science, sociology, intelligent and interactive systems, computing, culture, and society.
Electives (12-30 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must have all electives approved by the student's advisor and the Director of Informatics Graduate Studies prior to enrolling in the course.
Thesis Reading and Research (minimum of 21 cr. and a maximum of 30 cr.)
INFO I890 Thesis Readings and Research
Elective courses
In addition to required courses, students should take at least 12 elective credits for the doctoral degree.
Faculty in the HCID track offer courses that provide more targeted training in specific areas. This list is illustrative and not exclusive.
INFO I530 – Field Deployments
INFO I541 – Introduction to HCI
INFO I542 – Foundations of HCI
INFO I543 – Interaction Design Methods
INFO I544 – Experience Design
INFO I549 – Advanced Prototyping
INFO I512 – Direct Observation and Design
INFO I561 – Meaning and Form in HCI
INFO I567 – Design Strategy
INFO I590 – Topical Courses (e.g., Introduction to Virtual Reality; Product Management; Social Computing; Sustainability in HCI and Design; Visual Design for HCI)
INFO I604 – HCI Design Theory
Qualifying exam
Written and oral examinations will be structured by the student’s committee based on their research interests. A typical exam consists of an extensive annotated bibliography with accompanying critical essay that describes the student’s interpretation of the relevant literature and how they situate their own interests and work within it. The written portion of the exam is followed by an oral exam to defend the written submissions.
Typical minors
Inquiry methodology; cognitive science; anthropology; sociology; intelligent and interactive systems; computing, culture, and society.
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Animal Informatics
Bioinformatics
Complex Networks and Systems
Computing, Culture, and Society
Human-Computer Interaction/Design
Health Informatics
Intelligent and Interactive Systems
Security Informatics
Virtual Heritage
Ph.D. Minors