[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/phd-informatics/complex-networks-and-systems.html

Home
Programs
Ph.D. in Informatics
Complex Networks and Systems
Complex Networks and Systems
Are you interested in exploring
and understanding how the parts of a system interact with each other to drive the behavior of the system as a whole, in areas as diverse as social networks, the human brain, a language, power grids, financial markets, or gene regulatory networks? The complex networks and systems (CNS) track may be for you.
CNS shapes tomorrow
Watch how the Complex Networks and Systems program is making a difference
See CNS in action
When you study CNS, you’ll explore new solutions for problems in computer science, physics, math, biology, health, and cognitive and social sciences. You might determine what makes a certain YouTube video go viral, examine Instagram data to discover adverse reactions caused by drug interactions, or develop a model that can accurately predict the spread of misinformation online.
The complex networks and systems track includes:
A focused core of informatics coursework
Research and events training in complex networks and systems
Seminars such as colloquiums or talks organized by
CNetS
and the
CSBC
A strong faculty-supervised research component
Learn about related research
Training in this track is consolidated and enhanced by the Center for Complex Networks and Systems Research (
CNetS
) and the Center for Social and Biomedical Complexity (
CSBC
).
Visit CNets
Visit CSBC
Track guide
Summary
The Complex Networks & Systems track, with its unique interdisciplinary values, offers a training opportunity to explore the connections among theoretical, technological, biological, and social implications of complex systems in a diverse and multidisciplinary research-oriented curriculum. The study of complex systems is focused on discovering and understanding how the myriad parts of a system—which could be the Internet, the human brain, a language, a power grid, or an ecosystem—interact with each other and determine the macroscopic behavior of the system itself. This strongly interdisciplinary field has exciting implications for computer science, physics, math, biology, and cognitive and social sciences. Faculty at the associated
Center for Complex Networks and Systems Research
(CNetS) and
Center for Social and Biomedical Complexity
(CSBC) are investigating complex systems in action, from determining how a particular YouTube video suddenly goes viral to developing models that can accurately predict the spread of contagious diseases.
There are 11 core faculty that can serve as PhD advisor on a wide range of topics that span from complex networks to cognitive science, computational social science, social media analytics, human and artificial intelligence, science of science and more. Our students come from around the world and have a variety of educational backgrounds. What they share is a desire to widen their theoretical, computational, and technical skills—and, from the earliest days of the program, to engage in research projects ranging from Web mining to modeling biochemical regulation. Our students have graduated to join some of the best academic, government and research and development centers in the World, ranging from top universities to the most advanced technology companies.
Primary track faculty
Alessander Flammini
: Track Director
Computational social science, complex networks, online social media.
Yong-Yeol Ahn
Structure and dynamics of complex systems, such as society and living organisms, using massivdatasetsts.  Hierarchical & modular structure in social and biological networks, the analysis of metabolic networks, and the social media.
Jisun An
Data Science with applications to journalism, politics, health, and computational social science.
Randall Beer
Cognitive science, computational and theoretical biology. Understanding how coordinated behavior arises from the dynamical interaction of an animal’s nervous system, its body and its environment. Evolution and analysis of dynamical “nervous systems” for model agentsneuromechanicalal modeling of animals, biologically-inspired robotics, and dynamical systems approaches to behavior and cognition.
Johan Bollen
Computational social science, social media analyticsinformetricscs, and digital librariesMememe diffusion, markets and sentiment, metrics from usage data, science of science.
Santo Fortunato
Statistical physics of social dynamics, Community structure in complex networks, Science of Science.
Haewoon Kwakak
Social computing, computational social science, media bias, online harms, fairness and biasociotechnicalal systems, game analyticsesportsts.
Filippo Menczer
Web science, social media, social networks, social computing, Web search and data mining, distributed and intelligent Web applications, and modeling of complex information networks.
Staša Milojević
Dynamics of science as a social and an intellectual (cognitive), science, technology, and societySTSTS), science of science, information science, network science, economics, sociology, philosophy, history.
Filippo Radicchi
Complex Networks and Systems, Data Science, Science of Science, Sport Analytics.
Samantha Wood
Origins of intelligence, computational neuroscience, learning and development, perception and cognition, body-brain-environment systems, biological and artificial intelligence.
Curriculum
Required courses
A student must successfully complete ninety (90) credit hours of graduate-level course work. The specific track requirements are listed below.
Informatics Core Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I501 Introduction to Informatics (3 cr.)
INFO I502 Human-Centered Research Methods in Informatics (3 cr.)
Complex Systems & Networks Core Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I601 Introduction to Complex Systems (3 cr.)
INFO I606 Network Science (3 cr.)
Seminar Requirements (6 cr.)
INFO I609 Seminar I in Informatics: Complex Systems (3 cr.)
INFO I709 Seminar II in Informatics: Complex Systems (3 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must take I609 and/or I709.
Research Rotation Requirement (6 cr.)
INFO I790 Informatics Research Rotation (3 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must complete two rotations of I790. A third rotation will not count for course credit.
Theory and Methodology Requirement (12 cr.)
NOTE:
These courses must be appropriate for a Ph.D. in Informatics.
Minor (6-15 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must complete an internal or external minor approved by the University Graduate School and the School. If a student selects an individualized minor, prior to taking courses, the University Graduate School must approve the proposed minor course list. There is no typical minor; however, students in the Complex Systems & Networks track often pursue a minor in Biology, Computer Science, or Statistics.
Electives (12-30 cr.)
NOTE:
A student must have all electives approved by the student's advisor and the Director of Informatics Graduate Studies prior to enrolling in the course.
Thesis Reading and Research (minimum of 21 cr. and a maximum of 30 cr.)
INFO I890 Thesis Readings and Research
Optional courses
INFO I585 Biologically-inspired Computing
INFO I590 Topics in Informatics
CSCI B657 Computer Vision
COGS Q580 Introduction to Dynamical Systems in Cognitive Science
Qualifying exam
Written and oral examinations decided by program committee based on bibliography from I609, I709 and specific research interests of candidate. Typical written exam: three papers or one-week take home exam.
Typical minors
Cognitive Science, Statistics, Biophysics.
Sample dissertation titles
Abi-Haidar, Alaa
An Adaptive Document Classifier Inspired by T-cell Cross-regulation of the Immune System
Mourao, Marcio
Reconstructing the Mechanisms and the Dynamical Behavior Complex Biochemical Pathways
Conover, Michael
Digital Democracy: The Structure and Dynamics of Political Communication in a Large Scale Social Media Stream
Frey, Seth
Complex Collective Dynamics in Human Higher-Level Reasoning: A Study Over Multiple Methods
Kaur , Jasleen
Emergence of Innovation and Impact in Science
Kolchinsky, Artemy
Measuring Scales: Integration and Modularity in Complex Systems
Mao , Huina
Modeling Economic and Financial Behavior from Large-scale Datasets
Shuai, Xin
Modeling Scholarly Communications Across Heterogeneous Corpra
Simas, Tiago
Stochastic Models And Transitivity In Complex Networks
Wang, Zhiping
Biomedical Literature Mining For Pharmacokinetics Numerical Parameter Collection
Weng, Lilian
Information Diffusion on Online Social Networks
Barron, Alexander T.J.
Collective Creation of Identity and Institutions through the Lens of Language Innovation
Notarmuzi, Daniele
Information Diffusion in Online Social Media
Varol, Onur
Analyzing Social Big Data To Study Online Discourse And Its Manipulation
Yang, Kai-Cheng
Social Media Bots: Detection, Characterization, and Human Perception, 2023
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Animal Informatics
Bioinformatics
Complex Networks and Systems
Computing, Culture, and Society
Human-Computer Interaction/Design
Health Informatics
Intelligent and Interactive Systems
Security Informatics
Virtual Heritage
Ph.D. Minors