[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/certificates.html

Home
Programs
Undergraduate Certificates
Undergraduate Certificates
Certify your tech skills
Technology is everywhere. Whether you’re planning a career in music, business, science, math, or almost any other field, having in-depth knowledge of technology will help you innovate and succeed—and a certificate from the Department of Informatics can help you develop that knowledge.
Our certificates are open to Luddy students and students outside the school (with approval from your school’s recorder). You must be working toward or have already received an IU degree to start earning a certificate.
We offer two certificates to complement your major or degree.
Certificate in Informatics
Looking for a strong foundation of informatics skills that’ll be useful in your career? Our Certificate in Informatics will teach you how to apply technology to solve problems in any field. You can customize your certificate by choosing two electives such as business application development or multimedia arts and technology.
Certificate in Entrepreneurship
Offered jointly with the IU Kelley School of Business, the Certificate in Entrepreneurship will give you tech skills along with business know-how. If you choose to work for yourself or even for a small business, basic business and entrepreneurial skills will be invaluable.
You’ll need to
apply online
to be considered for the Certificate in Entrepreneurship program.
Review your degree requirements
All informatics certificate requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. To review your specific requirements, choose the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
If your start year isn’t listed here, you can
find an earlier bulletin
.
2024-25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Find requirements in earlier bulletins
Talk to an advisor
Looking for more information about getting an undergraduate certificate or minoring in an area of informatics? You’ll want to talk to one of our advisors who specialize in working with pre-Luddy and non-Luddy majors.
Find an advisor
Luddy School majors should speak to their advisor about adding a minor or certificate to their degree.
Find your advisor
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Ph.D. Minors