[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/4plus1-ms-animal-informatics.html

Home
Programs
4+1 Program
4+1 M.S. in Animal Informatics
A five-year B.S./M.S. program
If you’re currently enrolled in IU’s
B.S. in Informatics
or
B.S. in Animal Behavior programs
, good news: you can apply for our 4+1 M.S. program and earn both the B.S. and a
Master of Science in Informatics, Animal Informatics track
in just five years, increasing your expertise and expanding your career opportunities.
Why do the 4+1 M.S. program?
Prepare to be promoted
When you're hired, you'll already have the advanced skills and degree you need to move up.
Save time and money
You'll take up to 18 fewer credit hours than if you earned a B.S. and M.S. individually.
Build on your connections here
Learn even more from your IU mentors, and keep collaborating with friends and partners.
Get the same valuable degree
All M.S. in Informatics students earn the same degree and diploma.
How it works
The program is designed so that highly motivated students can earn a master's degree in just one additional year. To do that, you'll take at least one graduate-level course during your senior year, when you're still classified as an undergraduate. You need to request permission from your
advisor
.
You'll be classified as an undergraduate through the last semester you are enrolled in undergrad requirements. You have to complete at least 15 hours of coursework while classified as a grad student.
Undergraduate scholarships and funding
Transitioning to graduate student status may affect any undergrad scholarships or other funding you have. Make sure to check on this and plan for it.
Cost
For the semesters you are in graduate status, you will pay the same tuition and fees as other M.S. students. Learn about
costs and financial aid
.
When you'll get your degrees
Degrees are awarded separately as the degree requirements have been met for each degree.
B.S. in Animal Behavior students
If you’re currently a student in the
Animal Behavior
program in the College of Arts and Sciences, this is the track for you. Accelerate your career by enrolling in this 4+1 program during your junior year.
As an undergraduate student, you’ll take INFO-I411 Animal-Computer Interaction Methods, INFO-I414 Seminar in Animal Computer Interaction, INFO-I513 Usable Artificial Intelligence, and INFO-I590 Prototyping with Arduino Tools.
During your second year in the program, you’ll follow the second year curriculum as outlined on the
M.S. in Animal Informatics page
.
B.S. in Informatics students
Students currently pursuing their B.S. in Informatics with the
Animal Informatics cognate
are eligible for this 4+1 M.S. program.
The recommended path for students taking this path include taking the following classes as an undergraduate:
INFO-1341 Prototyping with Arduino Tools, INFO-I413 Usable Artificial Intelligence, and INFO-I414 Seminar in Animal Computer Interaction.
During your second year in the program, you’ll follow the the second year curriculum as outlined on the
M.S. in Animal Informatics page
.
Ready to get started?
Admission requirements
Apply as early as your junior year
Must have completed 60 credits
Change your major to B.S/M.S. program by talking to your advisor
Maintain a minimum grade point average of 3.0 in your major and program
We encourage you to enroll in your first graduate class before you apply, but it isn't required for admission.
How to apply
Start by contacting your
advisor
, who can guide you through the process.
You’ll complete the same application for admission that traditional M.S. students submit, but you don’t have to submit Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores. We encourage letters of recommendation.
Apply now
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Ph.D. Minors