[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/index.html

Home
Programs
Programs
Use technology to tackle real-world issues
Information technology plays an ever-increasing role in our connected world. As an informatics student, you won’t just study technology—you’ll learn how to make significant changes in the areas that interest you most, like business, human-centered computing, security, or fine arts. You’ll create new uses for technology and new ways for people to interact with it.
Whether you want to work with electronic health records, model and visualize customer data, or create the next great smartphone app, our degree programs will help jump-start your career.
What does it cost to get your degree from the Department of Informatics?
Curious about what you will pay to get an informatics degree? Find out about tuition and fees in Luddy.
Explore costs
Undergraduate programs
With our undergraduate offerings, you’re sure to find the path that suits you. Earn your bachelor’s degree, get a certificate, or enhance any major with a minor in an informatics-related area.
Start working on your bachelor’s degree
Get a B.S. in Informatics
Learn logic, programming, data visualization, interaction design, and other marketable tech skills. Concentrate your study in any one of 21 disciplines, from business analytics to computer security.
Get a M.S.I.S.—fast
If you’re an informatics major, you can apply to the Accelerated Master of Science in Information Systems program offered in partnership with the IU Kelley School of Business.
Add a different master’s degree
With an accelerated master’s program, you can earn both your B.S. in Informatics and a master’s degree in less time than earning both separately.
Find a minor
Human-centered computing
Explore the social and cultural aspects of computing, including design, human-computer interaction, multimedia, and more.
Informatics
Get a working knowledge of the application of technology that will help you no matter what career you choose.
Information technology
Learn about programming, network technology, and interface or web programming when you minor in information technology.
Security informatics
Learn about the challenges, techniques, technology, and human impact of information security.
Explore informatics minors
Earn a certificate
Informatics
More in-depth than the informatics minor, this certificate will give you a strong foundation of informatics skills to use in your chosen career.
Entrepreneurship
Thinking of working for yourself? Learn basic business and entrepreneurial principles with this certificate.
Learn about informatics certificates
Graduate programs
Ready to advance your education? Our graduate programs let you extend your knowledge of informatics and prepare you for an exciting career. All of our graduate programs are classified as
STEM
(science, technology, engineering, and mathematics).
M.S. in Informatics
Integrate your technical skills and computer science methods with an array of disciplines as you learn about the technological, social, and scientific effects of information technology.
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction Design
Go beyond just using technology to solve a problem—learn how to create a technology experience that will be functional, intuitive, and user friendly.
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Learn to model, analyze, and manage massive amounts of biological data in a program that combines computing, informatics, biology, and statistics.
M.S. in Secure Computing
Get ready to protect our technology and understand the people who would do harm. This degree offers a highly technical, multifaceted approach to cybersecurity.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Conduct practical and theoretical research into areas such as complex networks and systems, human-computer interaction design, and virtual heritage.
Learn more about our Informatics graduate programs
If you’re interested in learning more about our Informatics graduate programs, consider attending one of our prospective graduate student events. We host online and on-campus events to give you the information you need about the admission process and available academic tracks.
Sign up for an event
Request more information
Looking for a program you don’t see here?
The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering has more programs related to technology and information.
See Luddy undergraduate programs
See Luddy graduate programs
Get to know the Department of Informatics
Explore class offerings
Meet our faculty
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Ph.D. Minors