[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/apply/funding-opportunities.html

Home
How to Apply
Funding Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
Looking for undergraduate scholarships?
See scholarships for informatics students from the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering. Luddy has a wide array of undergraduate funding opportunities.
View our undergraduate scholarships
Financial support for Informatics graduate students
Attending graduate school is an investment in your future. The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering and the Department of Informatics strives to provide partial financial support to admitted students.
What does it cost to get your degree from the Department of Informatics?
Curious about what you will pay to get an informatics degree? Find out about tuition and fees in Luddy.
Explore costs
Funding for master’s students
All completed applications that are reviewed by the admissions review committee are considered for financial awards which Informatics may be offering. If you are offered admission, your admit letter will detail the financial award, if any.
Every year we have limited funds to distribute.  Depending on the number of applications received and the competitiveness of those applications determines the number of financial awards.
Funding, if awarded, may take the form of a 10-hour-per week appointment for duties within the School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, a fellowship award, and/or a travel award.
If students are awarded a 10-hour-per week appointment, students are required to fulfill their appointment responsibilities of grading finals and other administrative duties through the end of finals week for both the fall and spring semesters. Failure to fulfill the appointment responsibilities may result in termination of the appointment.
Funding for Ph.D. students
Students are automatically considered for funding when the admission committee reviews his/her application.
The School guarantees Ph.D. funding for four years of funding if the student enters the program with both a B.S. and M.S. degree. It is possible to transfer up to 30 credits from a M.S. degree.
The School guarantees Ph.D. funding for five years of funding if the student enters the program with only a B.S. degree.
The Ph.D. funding package for full-time students includes the following:
Associate Instructor/Research Assistant Appointment and Stipend.
Each academic year that the student is funded, he/she will receive an appointment as an Associate Instructor (AI) or a Research Assistant (RA). By having an opportunity to be both an AI and a RA over the course of the program, students can develop skills as an instructor and as a researcher. This appointment includes a 10-month stipend. During the 2019-2020 academic year, students were paid $19,500. The Appointment’s Stipend is considered taxable income.
Students are expected to spend at least 20 hours each week on assigned duties or projects. Students will be required to fulfill appointment responsibilities of grading finals and other administrative duties through the end of finals week for both the fall and spring semesters. Students should plan to return to campus for the spring semester no later than the day before the start of classes. Failure to fulfill appointment responsibilities may result in termination of the appointment.
Tuition Fee Remission
In addition to the Appointment and Stipend, the student will receive tuition fee remission of up to 12 credit hours per semester
and
6 credit hours in the summer. The tuition fee remission will cover only courses that are an integral part of the curriculum required to complete the degree. The tuition fee remission will cover 100% of the credit hour fees. Good academic progress is required to receive tuition fee remission.
Indiana University charges students a variety of mandatory fees that students are required to pay. The mandatory fees include but are not limited to fees for transportation; technology; student health center; activities (fitness centers); and repair & rehabilitation. The mandatory fees vary depending on the number of credit hours taken and a student’s residency status (in state or out-of-state).
Each summer, the Indiana University’s Board of Trustees sets the updated tuition and mandatory fee rates. See the Office of the Bursar’s listing of
Tuition & Fee Rates
and Mandatory Fees. It is our understanding that this Tuition Fee Remission Award is non-taxable.
Health Insurance
As part of the offer, the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering will cover the cost of the student’s health insurance, which Indiana University provides to students who have a student academic appointment. The cost of this health insurance is approximately $3,600 annually.
Travel Allowance
To enhance academic and professional goals, the student will have opportunities to travel in the United States as well as abroad. To help defray expenses, the student will also receive a travel allowance of up to $1,500 during the first two years of study. During the third year of study and beyond, the student will receive an additional $1,500 for travel.
Requirements and expectations
Provide proof of U.S. Citizenship or Authorization to Work
In order to receive an appointment as an Associate Instructor (AI) or a Research Assistant (RA), the student must be able to provide proof U.S. citizenship or proof of authorization to work in the United States as a non-citizen for the period of time the employment is offered. This documentation is required at the time of arrival on campus in August.
Sign contract and attend training
If the student receives a Student Academic Appointment (SAA), the student is required to sign an employment contract, supply the documentation that is required for the hiring process, attend a training session, complete several online tasks, and follow all policies in
IU’s Graduate Student Academic Appointees Guide
.
Pass the English Proficiency (TEPAIC) Exam
If the student’s native language is not English, the student is required to pass the
Test of English Proficiency for Associate Instructor Candidates (TEPAIC
), an English proficiency exam, in order to receive an AI assignment.
Maintain full-time status
In order to receive funding from the School, the student must maintain full-time status, which requires that a student be enrolled in a minimum of eight (8) credits each semester. Audited courses are not counted in the definition of full-time study. However, there are a few exceptions as follows:
A Ph.D. student who holds a Student Academic Appointment (SAA) as an Associate Instructor or Research Assistant will be required to enroll in at least 6 hours of credit during each semester they continue to hold an appointment.
By enrolling in less than the required eight credits per semester, it will take longer to complete the program. Additionally, failure to be enrolled in a minimum of 8 credits per semester without the approval of the student’s advisor, track director, and the Informatics Director of Graduate Studies, may result in loss of funding.
A Ph.D. student who has completed courses and deferred dissertation credits totaling 90 hours, providing they are working on their dissertation for the completion of the degree, must enroll in at least one hour of dissertation credit each semester.
A Ph.D. student who has already accumulated 90 or more hours of graduate credit and who holds a Student Academic Appointment (SAA) as an Associate Instructor or Research Assistant will be required to enroll in at least 6 hours of credit during each semester they continue to hold an appointment.
International students: It is imperative that an international student maintain full-time status to remain in visa compliance. For questions about visa compliance, contact the Office of International Services (
ois.iu.edu
).
Maintain Good Academic Standing and Making Satisfactory Progress
This offer and funding package are contingent upon the student remaining in good academic standing and making satisfactory progress in the program, as defined in the University Graduate School Bulletin, the Informatics Ph.D. Handbook, and the appropriate track handbook.
Other funding opportunities at IU Bloomington
We encourage all students to explore additional funding opportunities at IU. Start here:
IU GradGrants Center: IU Bloomington funding opportunities
University Graduate School financial support information
Financial aid options for international students
Jobs at IU: On-campus jobs
If you want to be nominated for an internal fellowship or award through the University Graduate School, contact the Luddy Graduate Studies Office at
gradvise@iu.edu
.
Graduate Application
Funding Opportunities