[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/accelerated-msis.html

Home
Programs
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Move into a leadership position with a master’s degree
Are you a
B.S. in Informatics
student who’s focused, motivated, and interested in helping traditional industries implement their digital plans? You can get your master’s degree in as few as two semesters with the Accelerated Master of Science in Information Systems program.
A partnership between Luddy and the IU Kelley School of Business, this program gives you the opportunity to bridge the gap between your undergraduate education and workplace expectations. You’ll likely begin your career with a higher starting salary, and you’ll have the skills to rapidly move up to a leadership role.
If you’re pursuing a B.S. in Informatics, you can apply to the Accelerated M.S.I.S. program at any time, from freshman year (if you’re a direct admit) to after graduation. You must complete the pre-M.S.I.S. requirements listed on this page. If you’re a senior, you can enroll in the summer M.S.I.S. JumpStart program after you graduate, which will allow you to complete all of the prerequisites in just three months.
Admission requirements
Admission to the Accelerated M.S.I.S. program requires:
A minimum cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.2
A bachelor’s degree in informatics
Completion of business and technology prerequisite courses
Names of two IU faculty members who are willing to serve as references
Interviews with the Kelley admission committee
GMAT/GRE scores are waived for students who meet the admission requirements.
Business prerequisites
You must complete the 18 credit hour pre-M.S.I.S. business cognate, which includes:
BUS K201
The Computer in Business
BUS A201
Introduction to Financial Accounting or A200 Foundations of Accounting
BUS F300
Introduction to Financial Management
BUS J306
Strategic Management and Leadership or BUS Z302 Managing and Behavior in Organizations
BUS M300
Introduction to Marketing
BUS P300
Introduction to Operations Management
Technology prerequisites
Introduction to information systems (one course)
Select any one course from this list:
INFO I101 Introduction to Informatics
INFO H101 Introduction to Informatics, Honors
CSCI C211 Introduction to Computer Science
CSCI H211 Introduction to Computer Science, Honors
CSCI A110 Introduction to Computers and Computing
Information technology infrastructure and networks (one course)
Select any one course from this list:
INFO I320 Distributed Systems and Collaborative Computing
INFO I430 Security for Networked Systems
INFO I433 Systems and Protocol Security and Information Assurance
CSCI A338 Network Technologies and Administration
CSCI P434 Distributed Systems
CSCI P438 Introduction to Computer Networks
Database concepts (one course)
Select any one course from this list:
INFO I308 Information Representation
INFO H308 Information Representation, Honors
INFO I435 Management, Access, and Use of Big and Complex Data
CSCI B461 Database Concepts
Introduction to programming (one course)
Select any one course from this list:
INFO I210 Information Infrastructure I
INFO I211 Information Infrastructure II
INFO I399 Current Topics in Informatics
CSCI A201 Introduction to Programming I
CSCI C212 Introduction to Software Systems
CSCI A290 Tools for Computing (3 credit programming content)
Systems analysis and design (two courses)
Select any two courses from this list:
INFO I494 Design and Development of an Information System
INFO I495 Design and Development of an Information System
INFO H494 Design and Development of an Information System, Honors
INFO H495 Design and Development of an Information System, Honors
Learn more about these courses
Ready to get started?
Apply now through the IU Kelley School of Business
B.S. in Informatics
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Ph.D. Minors