[Source URL]: https://informatics.indiana.edu/programs/bs-informatics/index.html

Home
Programs
B.S. in Informatics
B.S. in Informatics
Bachelor's Degree in Informatics
With our Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Informatics you will gain the capacity to understand, create, and use technologies to help shape a more inclusive and diverse future.
If you’re passionate about the human side of technology, how technological information systems impact individuals and societies, and how technology can improve people’s lives, pursuing a bachelor’s degree in informatics is a great way to gain the critical technical skills you need to make a positive impact in a variety of high-demand informatics careers.
Luddy’s informatics program is designed to give students hands-on experience in their preferred area of interest. Through degree specializations and real-world project opportunities, informatics majors learn how to apply computer skills and theoretical knowledge to solve problems, preparing them for informatics careers in sectors such as medicine, business, politics, and more.
Career outcomes
97%
Employed or in grad school (2023)
$75,262
Average starting salary (2023)
Talk to a recruiter
Apply now
Let's stay in touch
Complete this form to learn more about informatics at IU.
Luddy Undergraduate Marketing Campaign
Name
*
First
Last
Email
*
Expected High School Graduation Year
*
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Interested Major
Any
Cybersecurity and Global Policy
Computer Science
Data Science
Informatics
Intelligent Systems Engineering
UTM Campaign
UTM Source
UTM Medium
UTM Content
UTM Term
Stream
Luddy Informatics career outcomes
With your informatics degree, you’ll be able to design resilient information systems that solve problems in any industry or sector.
Luddy graduates have developed systems to keep people with dementia safe, track proximity during COVID-19, lead youth technology programs to improve rural community health in South America, improve the future of agriculture, and more.
Make sense of the hundreds of informatics career options and gain essential job-search skills with the Luddy School’s
career services for informatics majors
.
Informatics career success
97%
success rate (employed or accepted to graduate school 2023)
$75,262
average starting salary (2023)
Top job titles (of 254 reported titles)
57
analyst (AI, business, data, product, research, solutions, technical/technology, threat)
61
consultant (business, cybersecurity, data, solutions, technical/technology)
18
engineer (network, operations, project, software, solutions)
20
developer (business, intelligence, sales, software, web)
A sampling of places our alumni land
Informatics internships
Most of our students supplement their educational experience with at least one internship. During the 2019-20 school year, informatics students earned an average of $23/hour while serving internships around the globe. The top-hiring intern companies included Crowe, abbvie, and Liberty Mutual.
Learn more
B.S. in Informatics courses
The courses you’ll take will teach you how to understand, create, develop, and refine technologies and information systems. Whether you apply to Luddy as a freshman or you wish to explore the informatics major while at IU, you can sign up to take these courses.
Review a
complete list of informatics courses
and see the
four-year plan in an example degree map
.
INFO-I101: Introduction to Informatics
Learn how to solve problems using information technology, the basics of system design, operating systems, cutting-edge technologies, and more.
Explore the Introductions to Informatics course objectives and outcomes
.
INFO-I123: Data Fluency
Learn the fundamental skills needed to understand how to use data to build knowledge and generate predictions that can shape the future.
INFO-I202: Social Informatics
Explore key social research perspectives on the use of information systems and communication technologies, including ethics, frameworks, methodologies, and more.
Specialize your informatics degree with cognates
Luddy’s informatics program is one of the five largest programs at Indiana University, reflecting how the diverse interests of our student body also translate to a variety of career paths in the field.
Customize your IU experience and expand your skillset by choosing from more than 30 specialty areas in our extensive list of cognates. By studying your cognate subject alongside the core informatics curriculum, you have the opportunity to stand out in the job market while building a network of peers who share your interest.
These unique cognates span other Luddy programs as well as other highly -regarded schools across campus, such as the
Kelley School of Business
, the
Jacobs School of Music
, and more, allowing you to hone your skills in competitive fields from biology and health to psychology or linguistics.
Explore the over 30 cognate areas available to customize your informatics degree
.
Emma Lashley
B.S. in informatics with a cognate in business
Today
Analyzing email phishing attempts on the IU campus to determine common patterns and factors that can avoid successful attempts in the future.
Tomorrow
Studying data to provide analysis and consultation for businesses to improve the cybersecurity of company systems.
Informatics internships and research opportunities
Most informatics majors supplement their academic experience with at least one internship. These internships give students the opportunity to travel and earn money while applying their skills in hands-on settings. During the 2019-20 school year, Luddy informatics students earned an average of $23 per hour in positions around the globe at companies such as Crowe, AbbVie, and Liberty Mutual.
Explore the Luddy Hiring Data Report to see the kinds of internships informatics students have completed while pursuing a degree at Luddy
.
It’s possible for informatics majors in good standing to earn class credit by completing an internship as their capstone requirement.
Learn how to apply for an internship as your capstone project experience
.
See how Informatics Career Services can help you prepare for the job market
.
Hands-On informatics capstone project
Luddy’s B.S. in Informatics core curriculum ensures your technical skill level, but the heart of informatics is solving real-world problems. Through a senior capstone project, informatics majors showcase what they have learned by solving a specific problem for a local individual or organization, or by finding a broader solution for the world at large.
You can complete the required capstone project in class or through an internship, by joining our
nonprofit Serve IT clinic
, or completing a research-based thesis project. In the course option, you’ll work to solve a specific problem by creating an app or website, a strategic plan, a policy proposal, or a device. The internship and thesis options involve working with a faculty advisor or employer to complete a project.
Your informatics capstone is your chance to show how your perspective and skills can change the world. Use it to explore areas where you would like to pursue further education or demonstrate your skills to prospective employers.
Learn about the four options for your informatics capstone requirements
.
Student organizations and Luddy LLC
The
Luddy Living Learning Center (LLC)
is a residential community exclusive to first-year students obsessed with tech. The LLC offers in-residence students special trips and guest speaker opportunities,
access to high-tech equipment in the LLC makerspace
, and the ability to connect with peers who have similar interests.
Student clubs and organizations are another way our students connect with each other and add to their experiences and abilities.
Explore our diverse student organizations, from the Data Science Club and the Sociotechnical Ethics Society
.
Informatics degree requirements and curriculum
The B.S. in Informatics covers essential informatics topics with a focus on a study area of your choice, called a cognate, and includes built-in, real-world experience through projects and internships.
Find your specific degree requirements in the Luddy academic bulletin that represents the year you entered IU.
2024-25 bulletin
2023–24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Find requirements in earlier bulletins
Related programs
Undergraduate Informatics Minor
Broadening knowledge in areas such as computer science, virtual reality, or animal-computer interaction can open further careers in tech and set you apart.
Professional Undergraduate Certificates
In addition to the B.S. in Informatics, we offer enriching professional certificates that support a successful career in this constantly progressing field.
M.S. in Informatics
Those interested in graduate study can follow their B.S. in Informatics with a master’s to qualify them for higher-level roles or prepare them for starting their own business.
Doctoral Degrees in Informatics
Luddy’s Ph.D. in Informatics program allows candidates to pursue specific specializations and minors through research that prepares them for roles as leaders in education, government, and more.
Contact luddy advising
The Luddy School’s advising staff is here to help you navigate your undergraduate journey, whether it’s helping you understand degree requirements or sign up for classes that progress your individual career goals.
For any questions about Luddy or a specific program, current undeclared students and future informatics majors can
contact undergraduate advising
.
Talk to an advisor
Talk to a recruiter
Informatics tuition and financial aid
Students can lower the cost of earning their B.S. in Informatics in several ways, from federal scholarships available to all IU students to scholarships for incoming Luddy students.
Review cost, financial aid, and scholarships
Estimate your IU tuition cost
Learn more about getting a Bachelor's degree in informatics
Earning a Bachelor of Science in Informatics degree at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering sets you on a path to a fulfilling career backed by in-depth knowledge in a unique area and hands-on experience gained through internships and research-based capstone projects.
Review admissions standards
and
how to apply
to the B.S. in Informatics program at the Luddy School.
Get started by planning a visit
Begin your Luddy application
B.S. in Informatics
Cognates
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Certificates
4+1 Program
M.S. Informatics
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction
Accelerated M.S.I.S.
Ph.D. in Informatics
Ph.D. Minors