[Source URL]: https://ischoolonline.berkeley.edu/requestinfo/mids/?lsrc=fortunecplsite&utm_source=fortunecplsite&utm_campaign=ranking_edu-r-it-bmids&l=ranking_edu-r-it-bmids&c=instream&utm_content=instream&utm_medium=strategic_partnership&ef_id=R74

UC Berkeley’s Master of Information and Data Science | Online
UC Berkeley’s Master of Information and Data Science | Online
UC Berkeley’s Master of Information and Data Science | Online
Leverage the latest tools and analytical methods to work with data at scale, derive insights from complex and unstructured data, and solve real-world problems.
Leverage the latest tools and analytical methods to work with data at scale, derive insights from complex and unstructured data, and solve real-world problems.
Leverage the latest tools and analytical methods to work with data at scale, derive insights from complex and unstructured data, and solve real-world problems.
Get Admission and Tuition Information
Answer a few quick questions to determine if the Master of Information and Data Science program is a good fit for you.
Next Step
No GMAT or GRE scores required
Complete in 12–20 Months
— Prepare to be a data science leader well-versed in data engineering, machine learning, statistical analysis, and more.
Graduate from a No. 1-Ranked Program
—The online MIDS program from the UC Berkeley School of Information (I School) is nationally recognized by Fortune magazine.
1
Gain In-Demand Skills
— Careers in data science are on the rise
2
. Our graduates are applying their skills at Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, Google, and other top companies.
The I School Advantage
Network
Access to a Vibrant, Worldwide Network
Connections
Lifelong Connections in the Bay Area
Faculty
Learn from Leading Industry Practitioners
Leverage Data for Good
The UC Berkeley School of Information (I School) MIDS program prepares data science professionals to be leaders in the field. MIDS students benefit from a multidisciplinary curriculum, experienced faculty from top data-driven companies, and an accomplished network of peers. Delivered online, the WASC-accredited program brings UC Berkeley to students across the country and around the world.
Develop the skills to become a data science leader.
Build valuable relationships with faculty.
No GRE scores required.
The 27-unit, online program is designed for the working professional’s schedule and can be completed on one of three paths:
accelerated, standard,
or
decelerated
. The curriculum is delivered through insightful asynchronous course work and live, face-to-face classes.
Request Information Now
Learn More Today. Bring About Real-World Data Solutions Tomorrow.
This program is offered in collaboration with 2U, which is an online program management (OPM) company. The roles and responsibilities of the OPM partner in the offering of the program are to provide marketing support for the program, assistance with student recruitment, and front-line student support. UC Berkeley and UC Berkeley faculty are responsible for the creation of academic content, instruction, grading and assessment, credential and transcript creation and issuance, student services and escalated student support, program admissions, and accessibility accommodation.
1
Best Online Master’s in Data Science Programs,
Fortune
, Ranked in September 2024.
arrow_upward
2
Computer and Information Research Scientists,
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Accessed February 2022.
arrow_upward
Return to footnote reference
Return to footnote reference