[Source URL]: https://iumaa.iu.edu/index.html

Sharing the Human Story
The Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology cares for the collections of the former Glenn Black Laboratory of Archaeology and the Mathers Museum of World Cultures. The diverse collections in our care relate to dynamic societies from around the world and contain over five million objects of cultural heritage and archaeological significance.
The Museum tells the human stories behind these objects and uplifts the source and descendant communities that are connected to them, providing a gateway to the rich cultural heritage of humanity – right from the heart of IU Bloomington’s campus.
Spring Break Hours
The Museum will be
closed
Sunday,
March 16 through Thursday, March 20.
We will resume regular museum hours on Friday, March 21 with normal hours on Friday, March 21 and Saturday, March 22.
Museum Hours
Sunday & Monday: Closed
Tuesday: 10 AM - 5:30 PM
Wednesday: 10 AM - 5:30 PM
Thursday: 10 AM - 5:30 PM
Friday: 10 AM - 5:30 PM
Saturday: 12 PM - 5:30 PM
Apr
18
Museum Fellow Presentation: Archaeology During the Portuguese Dictatorship
Apr
25
“The (Im)Possibilities of Indigenous Philosophy”
May
08
Music at the Museum
May
31
City on the River Opening Community Celebration
Upcoming Events
Check out the events hosted by the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology this spring.
Upcoming Events
Additional Information for
Students
Student Advisory Council & Research Fellowships
Researchers
Collections Research Requests
IU Faculty
Scheduling Class Tours & Collaboration Opportunities
K-12 Educators
K-12 Curriculum, Resources, and Tours
Support the Museum
Our Students
Students are at the heart of the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, working with museum staff to research, catalogue, interpret, and exhibit artifacts from around the world. Your help supports a variety of museum programs and activities, including paid internships for students!
Tax-Deductible Gift
Your tax-deductible gift will support these initiatives and more. They’ll help fund the Museum's mission and the state’s only museum of its kind.
Build and Shape
Help build and shape IU's newest museum for the 21st century. The Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology will tell the story of humanity, from the rich heritage of Indiana’s First Peoples to the lives of contemporary Hoosiers, and how those stories are connected to peoples around the world.