[Source URL]: https://kelley.iu.edu/faculty-research/departments/operations-decision-technologies/undergraduate/index.cshtml#ipm

Home
Faculty & Research
Departments & Majors
Operations & Decision Technologies
Undergraduate
Supply Chain and Operations Management
Business Analytics
Information Systems and Digital Technology Management
Careers
Student Organizations
Creating tomorrow's business leaders.
The ODT Department prepares students for exciting careers on the forefront of supply chain management, operations management, business analytics, and information systems.
Undergraduate students can choose from majors in:
Supply Chain Management
Operations Management
Information Systems
or a co-major in:
Business Analytics
Digital Technology Management
Our theory and application courses provide the fundamental knowledge you'll need to hone your business skills. The Operations and Decision Technologies curriculum builds on such foundational courses as:
K303 Technology & Business Analysis
16-weeks
3 credits
Prerequisite: K201 or K204 with a grade of C or better
BUS-K 303 provides an introduction to the ways that technology enables and empowers business decision-making. In this introductory analytics course, you will learn how companies apply technology tools to prepare, analyze, model, and display the information used to manage their business. You will apply these same techniques using spreadsheet modeling and other tools. The course will meet twice weekly in a computer lab format to allow for hands-on instruction. The course will rely heavily on Microsoft Excel and the pre-requisite skills learned in K201/K204 to develop sophisticated data analysis and modeling tools.
The Integrated Core (I-Core)
The Integrated Core (I-Core) is a block of four classes that will bridge together everything you’ve learned inside and outside the classroom during your first two years at Kelley. Specifically, this block of four classes looks at the important relationships among finance, marketing, operations, and leadership. Learn more about the Undergraduate Program
curriculum
.
Careers
A concentration in the ODT majors prepares you for success in a number of exciting careers in emerging and in-demand fields at corporations such as supply chain planning, global procurement analyst, purchasing and inventory manager, material planning analyst, data analyst, IT analyst, data analytics—insights and analytics, digital analytics, and systems and analytics as well as in consulting positions.
Faculty Advisors
Supply Chain Management/Operations Management
Scott Dobos
Business Analytics
Sarah Sherry
Information Systems/Digital Technology Management
Alex Barsi Lopes
More Information
Undergraduate Program
Undergraduate Career Services
K303 evolves with changes in technology and industry demands. Today’s businesses know data analytics can improve business processes. Our students learn to prepare and analyze data, and develop spreadsheet models that lead to actionable insights.
Kari Johnson, Teaching Professor