[Source URL]: https://kelley.iu.edu/index.html

MBA experiences for tomorrow’s leaders
As an innovator in business education with two nationally ranked MBA programs, the Kelley School of Business is once again pushing the boundaries of what an MBA can be.
Kelley Direct Online MBA
The
#1-ranked
online MBA, celebrating 25 years of excellence and innovation
Explore the Kelley Direct Online MBA
Kelley Full-Time +Flex MBA
The
only
two-year MBA with the option to complete your second year in residence or online
Explore Full-Time +Flex MBA
We turn talented students into the finest professionals
Ranked #9 in the United States, the Kelley Undergraduate Program is setting the standard for business education. With seven business disciplines ranked in the top 10, every Kelley student—regardless of major—receives an exceptional educational experience.
Read the news release
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM
#9
Overall Best Undergraduate Business Program
#3 Marketing
#4 Accounting
#5 Entrepreneurship
#7 Management
#8 Management Information Systems
#10 Finance
#10 Production/Operations Management
#11 Business Analytics
#15 Supply Chain Management
#17 International Business
U.S. News & World Report,
2025
Undergraduate Program
Position yourself for greater career advancement
MS in Management
As part of the inaugural class, you’ll develop practical skills in leadership and strategy for a variety of career paths.
MS in Accounting with Data and Analytics
Pair analytical skills with accounting to get on the fast track to leadership roles.
MS in Finance
Discover the power of complementing your undergraduate degree with finance.
MS in Information Systems
Lead business transformation with cutting-edge technology skills.
Leaders in entrepreneurial education
Kelley is home to one of the finest entrepreneurship programs in the world. Just this year, the world’s leading entrepreneurship organization awarded Kelley with its prestigious USASBE Model Entrepreneurship Program Award— which recognizes “bold and innovative programs making an impact.”
Management & Entrepreneurship
Most influential Black executives
Six alumni of the Indiana University Kelley School of Business are among Savoy magazine’s
2022 Most Influential Black Executives in Corporate America.
Savoy’s prestigious list showcases African American men and women who have been recognized for their executive and business leadership in national and global-leading corporations.
Read the story
Kinsey-Kelley Center for Gender Equity in Business
Our partnership with IU’s renowned Kinsey Institute addresses long-standing gender inequity issues in the workplace. Our goal? To advance gender equity in business and to promote safe and healthy working environments free from sexual misconduct, harassment, and discrimination.
Gender equity in business
Kelley News
Kelley School moves into the Top 10 worldwide in ranking of research
                                            activity
The faculty research output from the Kelley School was more than any other
                                            school in the Big Ten. The school also was ranked ninth among North American
                                            business schools and second among public programs.
Kelley
                                            professor finds diversity of experience among board members leads to
                                            innovation
Research from the Indiana University Kelley School of Business found that
                                            diverse educational, industrial and organizational experiences among
                                            managers and board members leads to R&D innovation creating economic and
                                            social value.
Kelley
                                            School of Business among top schools for management research
The Kelley School was ranked eighth nationally in the latest TAMUGA Ranking
                                            of Management Department Research Productivity, which tracks faculty
                                            research contributions to eight of the most-influential scholarly journals
                                            in the discipline of management.