[Source URL]: https://law.indiana.edu/academics/jd-degrees/joint-degrees/cyber.html

Home
Academics
JD degree
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity risk management
Law students may combine their J.D. degree with an
M.S. in Cybersecurity Risk Management
, which is housed within the University Graduate School and consists of courses offered through the nationally ranked
School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
, the
Kelley School of Business
, and the Law School. The joint degree offers an interdisciplinary, practical approach to addressing the varied legal, policy, business, and ethical questions replete in the cybersecurity risk management field.
Requirements
The Law School will require 88 credit hours for the J.D. (including all required coursework) and the Cybersecurity MS degree will require 30 credit hours (including all required coursework). However, six credits of required law courses in the M.S. program and up to nine additional credits of required elective courses in the M.S. program will count toward the fulfillment of both degrees. The combined program therefore requires completion of a minimum of 103 credit hours of graduate coursework, which is 15 credits fewer than the 118 credit hours that would be required to complete the degrees separately. As a result, the total amount of course time for the two degrees will be reduced from 4-4 1/2 years to about 3-4 years.
Admission
Students must apply separately for admission to the Cybersecurity M.S. and the J.D. program in the Law School and must be accepted by both units in order to be admitted to the combined degree program. Students may apply for admission to both programs simultaneously. Alternatively, students enrolled in one program may apply for admission to the other any time before the completion of their degree. Note, however, that the Law School’s accreditation standards preclude it from granting credit toward the J.D. degree for any course work taken prior to the student’s matriculation in the Law School.
JD degree
Degree requirements
Legal research and writing
Joint degrees
Business
Public and Environmental Affairs
Cybersecurity
Information and Library Science
Law Minor
Media
Media Arts and Sciences
Outside Minor
Public Health
Russian
Earning a joint degree
Visiting students
Innovation and partnerships
JD learning outcomes
Graduate degrees
Courses
Areas of focus
Global experiences
Public interest
Experiential education
Family office program
Cybersecurity programs