[Source URL]: https://lgbtq.indiana.edu/

Welcome to the LGBTQ+ Culture Center!
Welcome to the LGBTQ+ Culture Center at IU! We're so glad you're here. We've got a ton of stuff for you to check out; take a look at our
resources
, check out our
scholarships
, and learn more about our programs and events by poking around the
website
as well as the
IU calendar
. Also feel free to stop by the LGBTQ+ Culture Center on 705 E Seventh Street—we are across from Dunn Meadow and next to La Casa.
LGBTQ+ National Youth HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
Wednesday, April 9 • 5–8 PM • IMU Tree Suites
Join Indiana University Bloomington in recognizing
National Youth HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
.
This event reflects IU’s ongoing commitment to creating a healthy, inclusive, and supportive community for all, focusing on students' well-being and HIV awareness, while also providing access to available support resources.
Hosted by the
LGBTQ+ Culture Center
and administered by the
Office of Student Life
, this free event brings together campus and local organizations to foster a safe and informed community. Refreshments will be served. All students, faculty, and staff are welcome to attend.
Event Schedule
5–6 PM:
Art Therapy – Maple Room
5–8 PM:
HIV & STI Testing – Poplar and Hoosier Rooms
6–7:30 PM:
Living with HIV Discussion – Maple Room
This gathering is part of IU’s broader commitment to raise awareness in alignment with
National Youth HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
, which the National Institutes of Health (NIH) recognize as a time to emphasize the importance of HIV prevention and treatment among youth.
Learn more about National Youth HIV/AIDS Awareness Day and how you can support awareness efforts by visiting the
NIH website
.
The Speaking of Excellence Speaker Series
The Speaking of Excellence: An LGBTQ+ Culture Center Speaker Series is made possible by private philanthropy and in partnership with various entities across IU Bloomington. Speakers invited to Indiana University reflect the mission, which is to inform, educate, and promote appreciation of the LGBTQ community.
Learn more
The LGBTQ+ Culture Center Re-Envisioning Project
We have a vision to create more opportunities for collaboration and connection, and offer more accessible, affirming, educational space for LGBTQ+ students and community.
Learn more
Connections & Community
A strong community is built on the foundation of our connections with others and with ourselves.
Celebrate the theme of Connections & Community by connecting with knowledge and resources to care for yourself and through forming connections with others. Participate in programming to learn how to advocate for yourself and others, build new connections, and contribute to building a stronger IU community.
How can we help?
Phone Number: (812) 855-4252
Address: 705 E Seventh St, Bloomington, IN
Contact Us
Upcoming Events
Apr
18
CANCELED: LGBTQ+ Community Gathering
5 p.m.
—
6:30 p.m.
LGBTQ+ CULTURE CENTER
-
May
06
Lavender Congratulatory Celebration
5 p.m.
—
6:30 p.m.
Grand Hall in Maxwell Hall 750 E Kirkwood Ave, Bloomington, IN
-
View more upcoming events
Want to know more about the LGBTQ+ Culture Center? Watch this presentation for a brief overview of the Center's history, the services and programs we offer, and the resources we can connect you with!
Together We’re Better
Indiana University’s LGBTQ+ Culture Center is open for everyone. It serves as a safe and inclusive gathering space for LGBTQ+ students—a place where people are given the encouragement and resources to build meaningful relationships across differences and open their minds and hearts to matters relating to race, gender, and sexual orientation.
Learn more about the LGBTQ+ Culture Center
A Diverse Culture
We promote a climate of understanding, support, and celebration of diversity that enables IU’s LGBTQ+ community to learn, live, and grow.
Learn about queer life at IU
LGBTQ+ Programs and Services
We promote a climate of understanding, support, and celebration of diversity that enables IU’s LGBTQ+ community to learn, live, and grow.
Resources
We provide a number of educational programs and social events focused on gender and sexual diversity to support, enrich, and educate students, faculty, and staff members of the IU Bloomington community.
Experienced a bias incident?
If you've experienced an incident of bias, we - and many other members of the campus community - are here to help.
Report a bias incident
If you would like to speak with someone from the LGBTQ+ Culture Center, please contact us via email:
glbtserv@iu.edu
, or phone: (812) 855-4252.
If you or someone else is in immediate danger, please call 911.
As I celebrate being queer, poz, Black, partially deaf, and Caribbean; the LGBTQ+ community is a myriad of gender and sexual identities. It is important to recognize, celebrate, and value our multiple dimensions of identity that make up the LGBTQ+ community at Indiana University. We welcome you and encourage you to visit the LGBTQ+ Culture Center. We are here to support students, staff, faculty, alumni, and community.
Bruce Smail, Director, LGBTQ+ Culture Center/Special Assistant to the Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion