[Source URL]: https://libraries.indiana.edu/lilly-library

Start Your Search
What are you looking for today?
Search our catalog, databases, research guides, journals, services, etc
Enter some keywords to search for
Search
Lilly Library, Arabic Calligraphy workshop, June 10, 2024.
Researching at the Lilly
Navigate your academic journey and streamline your research with direct access to essential tools.
Ask a Lilly Librarian
Ask about the Lilly Library’s collections and services or request a reading room appointment.
IUCAT for Lilly
Find books, journals, and multimedia materials available in our catalog.
Lilly Request System
Register online and request access to materials to be viewed in the Lilly Library reading room, or order reproductions.
Archives Online
Search descriptions of non-book materials such as correspondence and photograph held in our archival and special collections.
Image Collections Online
Search digital image files from our collections, as well as curated collections from other IU departments, museums, and cultural heritage institutions.
Digital Collections Online
Search digital images from our collections, including historic maps and the Frank M. Hohenberger photograph collection.
What’s Happening?
Learn what’s new at the Lilly.
Lilly Library Emails
Subscribe to stay in the loop about Lilly Library news and events
Weekly Event
Free Friday Tours
Weekly Event
Free Puzzle Collection Tours
View All News
View All Events
Teaching at the Lilly
Enhance student learning with hands-on experiences with the Lilly Library collections. Our librarians can help you design the session.
Request a Class or Tour
Schedule a class visit or request a tour for your group.  We also have weekly tours every Friday!
Teaching Philosophy
Learn about the Lilly Library’s approach to teaching with its collections and the values librarians bring to the classroom.
Research Services
We are here to help you on your research journey.
Digitization of Materials
Order digital images, PDFs, or other reproductions of Lilly Library materials.
Permissions & Copyright
Request permission to publish materials from the Lilly Library collections.
On-site Research Help
Learn about finding aids that are not online, like our manuscripts index, card catalog, and special card files. Ask us for help using these resources.
Indiana University’s Lilly Library is a state, national and international treasure, and a testament to the vision and generosity of J.K. Lilly Jr.
Michael A. McRobbie
University Chancellor | President Emeritus
The Big Picture: Great Moments in Document(ed) History
Focusing on large items from the Lilly Library's collections, the Big Picture offers fascinating insights into history, art, literature, and the evolution of book printing.
Learn more
Featured items
Events, blogs, and resources from the Lilly Library
Blog
What Are Mechanical Puzzles?
Andrew Rhoda, the Lilly Library’s Curator of Puzzles, begins a new series on the Slocum Puzzle Collection with an introduction to mechanical puzzles.
Outreach
Manuscript Mondays with Joel Silver
Joel Silver appears on the Manuscript Society's Manuscript Mondays series to talk about the legacy of J.K. Lilly.
Lecture
Unsung Romance: A Conversation with Beverly Jenkins
The Lilly Library's Rebecca Baumann talks to bestselling romance author Beverly Jenkins about her groundbreaking career.