[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/align/faculty-directed-initiatives/index.html

Home
Academics
Luddy ALIGN
Faculty-Directed Initiatives
Faculty-Directed Initiatives
Faculty-Directed Initiatives provide access to expertise and assistance in advanced data analytics, visualization, and development for the purpose of catalyzing faculty research.
Data Science South Korea/U.S. Global Lab Program
South Korea/ U.S. Global Lab Program students at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering have the opportunity learn how data science works on a global scale through an exchange partnership with Hanyang University in Seoul, South Korea. As part of an all-expense paid one-week trip that includes a $1,500 scholarship, you'll be exposed to the use of data science in tackling real-world international policy challenges and interact with U.S. State Department and U.S./Korean Embassy officials to show off your skills.
Faculty Assistance in Data Science
The
Faculty Assistance in Data Science
program provides faculty with access to expertise and assistance in advanced data analytics, visualization, and development for the purpose of catalyzing their research. This program pairs faculty from across the campus in any discipline with graduate students pursuing a M.S. in Data Science through the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering for summer research internships. These paid internships cover up to 150 hours of student effort on a faculty research project and are sponsored by IU Research and the University Graduate School. Internships will be awarded to students on a competitive basis and carefully matched to faculty projects using demonstrated competencies and interest in a given analytic area.
Grant Thornton Institute for Data Exploration for Risk Assessment and Management (GT-IDEA)
The
Grant Thornton Institute for Data Exploration for Risk Assessment and Management (
GT-IDEA
)
is an interdisciplinary institute that spans IU’s Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, Kelley School of Business, and School of Public and Environmental Affairs.
Thanks to Grant Thornton’s generosity, students from the participating schools will have the opportunity to work together to solve problems, explore data-driven approaches to risk assessment, and devise new solutions to better manage risk in the age of artificial intelligence. Their work, as well as the research of GT-Scholars is expected to lead to the creation of better services to navigate strategic challenges, and meet governance demands and compliance obligations. The multidisciplinary nature of this institute and the synergies that it will create are the key factors in meetings the policy, technological, and business needs of today's society.
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
Community Engaged Learning
Faculty-Directed Initiatives
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
External Experiential Programs
International Student Support