[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/about/facilities/index.html

Home
About
Luddy Hall & Facilities
Luddy Hall & Facilities
Innovation and collaboration thrive here
Our state-of-the-art facilities are designed to enhance research and learning, encourage collaboration, and facilitate innovation and entrepreneurship—exactly what our students and faculty need to shape tomorrow.
Visit us
Students, see where you’ll learn and create.
Luddy Hall, our inspiring new home
In this natural light–filled building, you’ll find three departments—computer science, information and library science, intelligent systems engineering—plus undergraduate and graduate advising, career services, administration offices, and several high-tech classrooms, labs, and makerspaces.
Luddy Hall opened in 2018. It is named for donor and information technology pioneer Fred Luddy and his family. Luddy founded
ServiceNow
, which
Forbes
named
the world’s most innovative company
in 2018.
Our buildings feature:
5
fabrication and prototype labs
11
interview rooms for meeting with employers
9
instructional labs
21
research labs
The Luddy Center for Artificial Intelligence
The $35 million building, which opened in 2021, includes state-of-the-art teaching and learning spaces dedicated to supporting IU faculty and students in conducting pioneering research in AI and its applications. The Luddy Center is home to ten AI-related research groups.
Myles Brand Hall
This recently renovated building houses the Department of Informatics, services for informatics students, the Department of Statistics, and cutting-edge classrooms and labs.
Luddy Makerspaces
The 3D Fabrication and Design Inquiry Labs at Luddy empower you to learn, collaborate, and create through hands-on activities.
Our makerspaces are spread across Luddy’s facilities and give you access to many types of machines and tools. Don’t know how to use the equipment? We offer training and guides to teach you.
Learn about our makerspaces
Shoemaker Innovation
Open to all Luddy students and the broader IU community, the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program helps students seize their future and do things that have never been done before.
We support aspiring innovators and entrepreneurs through an incubator, activities, mentoring, scholarships, and more.
Learn about the Shoemaker Innovation Center
More facilities
Our facilities include additional, research-focused buildings, such as:
The
Data To Insight Center
, a partnership among Luddy, the IU Libraries, and IU’s Pervasive Technology Institute
IoT (Internet of Things) Research Center
, whose researchers aim to give people control over their own homes
Multidisciplinary Engineering and Sciences Hall (MESH), home to several intelligent systems engineering offices and labs
Our Living Learning Center
First-year undergrads can live in the
Luddy Living Learning Center
.
Equipment and room reservations
To reserve classroom or presentation equipment—such as laptops, portable projectors, or teleconferencing equipment—use our
service request form
.
Plan a Visit
Luddy Strategic Plan
Leadership
Luddy Hall & Facilities
Makerspaces
Meet Fred Luddy