[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/international.html

Home
Academics
International Student Support
International Student Support
A global community with support for all
International students are an important part of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering (Luddy). Our school is truly global, with hundreds of students and faculty from outside the United States.
We will do everything we can to help you succeed—while you are here and after you graduate.
When you have questions or concerns
Luddy has many people you can talk with when you need help. You can start with your advisor, a professor, or other staff members you know. You can also contact
Tiana Iruoje
, Director of Student Engagement and Success, at
tiwillia@iu.edu
.
900+
international students at Luddy
28
countries represented by our students
7,300+
international students at IU Bloomington
IU Bloomington has the 19th-largest population of international students among U.S. higher education institutions.
Services for international students
The IU Office of International Services (OIS) is one of your main guides throughout your time at Luddy and IU. OIS has all the information you need as an international student, including details about admissions, enrollment, travel, orientation, life in the United States, working, and visas.
Go to the Office of International Services website
More resources to help you succeed
International hiring
Get help with the H-1B visa process—and improve your chances of getting job offers—with the IU Immigration Bridge Program, offered by OIS.
Career Services
Luddy’s Career Services Office will help you prepare for your career and navigate the U.S. recruiting process.
Luddy student organizations
Hone your skills, enjoy exclusive opportunities, and connect with other students who share your interests.
IU student organizations
IU has more than 700 student organizations, including many for international students.
IU cultural centers and institutes
Get involved with these centers and institutes to take advantage of programming and events.
Luddy events
See what is happening at Luddy.
IU events
See all events at IU Bloomington.
When you have questions or concerns
Luddy has many people you can talk with when you need help. You can start with your advisor, a professor, or other staff members you know. You can also contact
Stacey Arnold
, Assistant Dean of Student Services, at
arnoldsk@iu.edu
.
Admissions at Luddy
How to apply
Costs, funding, and cost of living
Bloomington, our lively hometown
Luddy and IU are located in Bloomington, Indiana—a city of approximately 85,000 people in the heart of the United States.
Bloomington combines a small-town atmosphere with the amenities of a much bigger city. Among Bloomington’s tree-lined streets, you will find a world-class music school, international grocery stores, restaurants with cuisine from around the world, great shops, miles of trails, and venues that host a variety of performances and ethnic festivals. It is also
easy to travel to larger cities nearby
, such as Indianapolis, Louisville, Cincinnati, and Chicago.
Explore Bloomington at VisitBloomington.com
A global outlook
International students are just one component of Luddy’s global outlook. Our faculty and students travel the world to collaborate and present their work, many of our students participate in
overseas study
, we regularly welcome international visitors, and we have
partnerships with higher education institutions worldwide
.
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support