[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/contact/profile/index.html?Jean_Camp

Home
Contact
profile
Profile of Jean Camp
Jean  Camp
Director of Center for Security and Privacy in Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Professor of Informatics
School Faculty Policy Committee
Adjunct Professor of Computer Science
Adjunct Professor of Telecommunications
Director of Secure Computing
Email:
ljcamp@iu.edu
Phone:
(812) 855-6617
Office:
Myles Brand Hall | Room:
E257
Website:
http://www.ljean.com/
Office Hours
Please see her course page for classes and office hours.
For CSGP and MSSC advising, please come by Tuesdays 10:00-11:30. If you have class at that time, stop by Thursdays between 6:15pm - 7:00.
Education
Ph.D. in Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University, 1996
M.S. in Electrical Engineering at University of North Carolina at Charlotte, 1991
B.A./B.S. in Mathematics and Electrical Engineering at University of North Carolina at Charlotte, 1989
Biography
L. Jean Camp is a Professor at the School of Informatics and Computing at Indiana University. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. She is a  Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.  She joined Indiana after eight years at Harvard’s Kennedy School where her courses were also listed in Harvard Law, Harvard Business, and the Engineering Systems Division of MIT.  She spent the year after earning her doctorate from Carnegie Mellon as a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at Sandia National Laboratories. She began her career as an engineer at Catawba Nuclear Station with a MSEE at University of North Carolina at Charlotte.  Her research focuses on the intersection of human and technical trust, leveraging economic models and human-centered design to create safe, secure systems. Her early contributions in the interdisciplines of economics of security, user-centered security, risk communication, and online trust underlie her applied research in the domains of IoT, authentication, secure networking, ecrime, public policy, ethics in computer science, and a few works on applied cryptography.  Full text and details on her publications can be found at their disciplinary homes, meaning that there is no complete overlap between
Research Gate
,
DBLP
,
SSRN
,  and
Google Scholar
. Works sorted by domain and discipline are also available at
http://www.ljean.com/publications.php
.
Luddy Research Areas
Crosscutting
HCI@Luddy
Health@Luddy
Security and Privacy@Luddy
Sensors and Material@Luddy
Departmental
Privacy
Security Informatics
Centers
Center for Security and Privacy in Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Update your profile
Request Information
People Directory