[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/align/innovation-entrepreneurship/index.html

Home
Academics
Luddy ALIGN
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Turn your great ideas into the products and services of tomorrow
Open to all Luddy students and the broader IU community, the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program helps students seize their future and do things that have never been done before.
We support aspiring innovators and entrepreneurs through a clinic, workshops, mentoring, scholarships, and workspace.
A springboard for success
While Adam Sobol was an undergrad studying informatics, he founded
CareBand
, which uses wearable sensors to monitor the movement and daily activity of seniors living with dementia.
Luddy helped Adam develop the skill set to succeed with CareBand by exposing him to several forms of computing. Winning an IU entrepreneurship competition helped, too: Adam got money to turn his idea into reality and learned a lot from pitching to a group of distinguished Luddy and IU alumni.
Shoemaker Innovation Center
The Shoemaker Innovation Center is a university-wide, student-focused source of creative and effective approaches to supporting innovation and entrepreneurship at Indiana University. In addition to housing the Cheng Wu Build Clinic, which is focused on product development support, the center regularly hosts talks by experienced technology inventors and entrepreneurs as well as workshops to facilitate the development of the technical skills students need for the successful implementation of their startup concepts.
Student inventors and entrepreneurs benefit from the following resources:
Mentoring by experienced professionals
Networking and educational events
A creative, collaborative working environment
Co-working space
Shared conference rooms
Cheng Wu Build Clinic
The clinic facilitates the Luddy School's support of student startups and relationship with industry partners through the following services:
Assist student startups with system analysis, design, and implementation of a minimum viable prototype.
Develop business and technical content to enable student growth in areas related to project management, product development, and related technical areas.
The following services are provided through the clinic:
Concept Design: Assist startups in developing the engineering details of their idea, which includes working from the problem statement through design ideation and developing design alternatives, resulting in a concept design report.
Detailed Design: Work from the concept report to develop a detailed design for the system to produce a detailed design report which would enable a detailed cost and sourcing analysis.
Prototype Fabrication: Assist startups with the development of a minimum viable prototype.
Workshops: Train skills in different technical areas such as PCB development, 3D modeling and implementation, and embedded software development.
To apply for coworking space or to become a client of the clinic, write to
luddysic@iu.edu
.
Cheng Wu Innovation Challenge
Pitch your innovative idea for a slice of $30,000 in funding. The competition is open to all IU Bloomington students.
Learn about the Cheng Wu Innovation Challenge
Velocity Conference in Silicon Valley
Each year, a group of Luddy graduate students travels to Silicon Valley to learn firsthand from successful tech entrepreneurs. You pay for transportation, and donors cover the food, hotel, and logistics costs. Grad students, we’ll email you when the application for the next Velocity Conference goes live.
Learn about the Velocity Conference
Student Organizations
Ideation & Creation Entrepreneurs
The Ideation & Creation Entrepreneurs (ICE) are a group of students who serve the campus by organizing student technology entrepreneurship events, providing access to resources, and supporting the development of student startups and projects.
Product Management Club
The Product Management Club (PMC) is an organization which encourages students to further their interest in product management as a viable career path through engagement via skills development, career development, and speaker series.
Shoemaker Scholars
The Shoemaker Scholars support the entrepreneurship ecosystem by helping their peers develop the technical skills required to build the solutions driving their startups. The program is funded by a generous gift from John and Donna Shoemaker.
Staff
Travis J. Brown
Senior Executive Assistant Dean
Executive Director, Shoemaker Innovation Center
Director, Luddy ALIGN
Co-Director, GT-IDEA
Travis Brown’s profile
Bryce Himebaugh
Cheng Wu Build Clinic Faculty Director
Clinical Associate Professor
Associate Chair, Intelligent Systems Engineering
Bryce Himebaugh's profile
Sanskriti Bhatnagar
Technical Specialist
Veda Charitha Bellam
Technical Specialist
Priya Jain
Technical Specialist
Adarsh Vulli
Technical Specialist
Advisory Board
Liam Bolling
Product Manager, Google
Dustin DuBois
Partner, Ice Miller
Stephanie Ragozzino
Chief Product Officer, OneCause
Donna Shoemaker
Philanthropist and Student Advisor
John Shoemaker
Chairman of Board of Directors, Extreme Networks, Inc.
Brad Wisler
Founder and CEO, Periodic
Co-founder and Managing Partner, SproutBox
Cheng Wu
General Partner, Taiwania Capital Management
Cynthia Zimm, M.D.
Division Chief, Nationwide Children's Hospital
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
Community Engaged Learning
Faculty-Directed Initiatives
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
External Experiential Programs
International Student Support