[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/advising.html#nonsice

Home
Academics
Advising & Tutoring
Advising & Tutoring
Your advisor is an expert on three things: Luddy, IU, and you
Current Luddy Students
Need advising or tutoring help? Visit our student portal to find the advising or tutoring help you need.
Luddy Student Portal
Find the help you need, when you need it. Your academic advisor is your resource from the time you start in Luddy until you complete your degree. Our staff have the experience to guide you every step of the way. We offer online and in-person advising.
Your Luddy advisor can help you:
Consider your goals and plan your four years around achieving them
Understand your
degree requirements
and how to customize your program
Add or change
majors, minors, and certificates
Navigate campus policies and procedures
Take advantage of helpful resources and
academic opportunities
Career coaching
The staff at Luddy Career Services will help you with everything from defining your career goals to navigating job offers. Learn about
career coaching and other services
.
Luddy Academic Advising services
The Luddy Academic Advising team offers online advising as well as limited in-person advising sessions.
Undergraduates
Students exploring Luddy degrees and wishing to meet with a member of the Luddy team can schedule an appointment with
Maria Clor
, using the Student Appointment Scheduler (
SAS
) and searching for "Maria Clor." Please indicate your intended major in the appointment reason field and any notes that you would like to discuss.
Graduates
You’ll have one or more advisors in your department. Learn more from your department.
In-person students:
gradvise@iu.edu
Online students:
siceooe@iu.edu
Luddy undergraduate minors and certificates
Students who are majoring in a non-Luddy degree and are earning an undergraduate Luddy minor or certificate or would like to learn more about a Luddy minor or certificate, can schedule an appointment with
Anna Bednarski
, Associate Director and Student Services Generalist.
Schedule an advising appointment
Review your degree requirements
All degree requirements are listed in the Luddy academic bulletin. If you’re an undergraduate, you can review your specific requirements by choosing the bulletin that represents the year you entered IU. If you’re a graduate student, choose the bulletin that represents the year you started, or plan to start, your program.
2024-25 bulletin
2023-24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
Explore all our majors in one class
Undergraduates can take SICE-Y 100 that introduces you to informatics, computer science, and intelligent systems engineering—including career options in these fields. We offer this 1 credit class for undergraduates during the first eight weeks and second eight weeks of the fall and spring semesters.
Find Luddy courses
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support