[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/grad-programs/masters.html

Home
Academics
Graduate Programs
Master's Programs
Master's Programs
Our Master’s degrees
can help you develop the skills to be a leader in your chosen profession, or if you’ve already been in the professional world, help you build your experience to allow you to excel. Our residential, online, hybrid, accelerated, and dual-degree options provide the flexibility you need to follow your path to tomorrow.
Master’s degrees
M.S. in Bioinformatics
Learn to model, analyze, and manage massive amounts of biological data in a program that combines computing, informatics, biology, and statistics.
M.S. in Computer Science
Master the field of computer science in this technical, highly marketable degree that prepares you for a job in Silicon Valley and beyond.
M.S. in Data Science—Residential
A focus on foundational knowledge will help lay the groundwork for a lifelong career as a data specialist, while plenty of hands-on training will give you a competitive edge in today’s job market.
M.S. in Data Science—Online
If you want to advance your career and increase your earning potential, but returning to school full time isn’t an option, the online M.S. in Data Science may be right for you.
Dual M.S. in Statistical Science and M.S. in Data Science
Combine your background in statistics with deep computational skills.
Dual M.S. in Data Science and M.S. in Applied Statistics
Combine your background in data science with deep statistical skills.
M.S. in Human-Computer Interaction Design
Go beyond just using technology to solve a problem—learn how to create a technology experience that will be functional, intuitive, and user friendly.
M.S. in Informatics
Integrate your technical skills and computer science methods with an array of disciplines as you learn about the technological, social, and scientific effects of information technology.
Master of Information Science
Prepare for a future designing, developing, programming, and managing the technology we use every day to store, access, and transfer knowledge.
M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Learn to use computational engineering and artificial intelligence to find solutions for an ever-changing world. You will prepare for a Ph.D. program or a variety of high-demand careers.
Master of Library Science
Learn how to evaluate, preserve, collect, and organize information within one of the world’s largest and best academic library systems.
M.S. in Secure Computing (Technology Focused Master's in Cybersecurity)
Get ready to protect our technology and understand the people who would do harm. This degree offers a highly technical, multifaceted approach to cybersecurity.
Dual degrees
Information and Library Science dual degrees
Earn two different master’s degrees in less time and with fewer credits. Choose from 20 pairings and a wide range of disciplines.
Dual M.S. in Secure Computing and M.A. in Russian and East European Studies
Combine cybersecurity skills with expertise in Russia and Eastern Europe.
Accelerated master’s programs: earn two degrees in five years
Earn another degree in just one more year of study. Some of our accelerated master’s degrees are open only to undergraduates in certain majors, while others are open to all IU Bloomington undergrads. You’ll become better prepared for your career and more likely to earn a higher starting salary.
Information Science 4 + 1 M.I.S.
Learn how to design, develop, and manage information technologies in one extra year of classes.
4+1 M.S. in Data Science—Residential
Add a M.S. in Data Science to your bachelor’s major, minor, or specialization in data science in one year.
4+1 M.S. in Data Science—Online
Add a M.S. in Data Science to your bachelor’s major, minor, or specialization in data science in as little as one year of online coursework.
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Add onto your B.S. in Computer Science and strengthen your technical skills in one additional year of study.
Accelerated M.S. in Information Systems (M.S.I.S.)
Prepare for a career that blends technical skill and business savvy. A partnership between Luddy and the IU Kelley School of Business, this program is open to informatics majors.
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Already pursuing a STEM degree at IU? Add a master’s degree in this future-focused branch of engineering in just one more year.
Library Science 4 + 1 M.L.S.
Add onto the bachelor’s degree you’re already earning and prepare for a career as a librarian.
Accelerated Master in Secure Computing
Add one year of study to your B.S. in Computer Science to earn a master's to help you specialize in cybersecurity.
Have more questions? Reach out and let us know.
Request more information
Find other way to meet the Luddy Graduates
Graduate Ambassadors
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Doctoral Programs
Ph.D. Minors
Master's Programs
Certificates
LIS Specialist
Training Grants
Graduate Handbooks
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support