[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/student-life/living-learning-center.html

Home
Student Life
Living Learning Center
Living Learning Center
The Luddy Living Learning Center, a residential community for first-year techies
As you consider IU housing, we think you’ll love one learning community in particular: the Luddy (LLC). Located in the Teter Quad, the Luddy LLC will help you start strong at IU, no matter your major.
Designed as a housing option for IU students who love technology, Luddy Living Learning Center residents can take advantage of special opportunities, like a trip to Silicon Valley.
Description of the video:
Living Learning Center as
a residential community for
first-year students interested in
informatics, computing, and engineering.
Students interested in technology
in general are welcome to apply.
Our goal is to build
a collaborative environment
where students have access
to that appears faculty members and
alumni who will help
them build a strong community.
I think that being in the LLC really
gave me a lot of connections and
support from a lot of people
throughout buddy and I
will see you in general.
I'm really grateful I would love to
be involved, especially at money.
And a lot of my opportunities came
from that I was able to
build here through our LLC class,
the executive board that I was on.
It kinda made me feel
more at home right away.
And that competence was able
to springboard me into
different clubs that aren't
in that body in general.
I have to say the people I've
met and being able to just come
down to the lounge and
knowing a lot of people having the same type
of nature is me being able to relate to them,
learn more things about my major.
I have a lot of friends to come to.
My favorite spaces are the makerspace
because you can make cool things
like these 3D printed earrings.
And I really like the reception area
because it's a nice place
to hang out with your friends.
We want our students to be prepared
personally, professionally, and academically.
And the Luddy LLC gives us
a space and the resources really
focus on these high-impact practices
that we know allows
students to be successful.
Why live in an IU Living Learning Community?
Get a head start and make lifelong friends
In the Luddy LLC, first-year students who love technology, whether they’re pursuing a major in the Luddy School or elsewhere on campus, live together and participate in a community of peers that gives them an edge at IU and beyond.
The Luddy Living Learning Center will help you transition to college, succeed academically, and develop your career skills. Not only will you make friends who will support and challenge you throughout your life, but you'll have opportunities to connect with Luddy faculty and even potential employers.
My floor was very close. It gives you such a great group to lean on when you are struggling, and we had a great time bonding outside of homework.
Gracie Renfro, computer science major and former Luddy LLC resident
Your year in the Luddy LLC will include:
Access to a network of faculty, advisors, tutors, and mentors
A trip to visit Silicon Valley employers like Apple, LinkedIn, and Thumbtack during spring break
“Dish and Dines,” where you eat dinner with leaders in the technology field and learn about their companies
Professional development events like resume reviews and mock projects
A course that Luddy LLC students take together
A
dedicated Luddy LLC makerspace
with prototyping equipment just for Luddy LLC students
Social programs in evenings and on weekends
Apply to live in the Luddy LLC
If you’re interested in this technology-driven living learning community, the IU housing application opens February 1. The priority deadline to apply to live in the Luddy LLC is May 1. If you apply or make changes to your submitted application after May 1, you may not receive full consideration for a spot in the Luddy LLC. Space is limited and in high demand, so apply as early as possible.
In your application, make sure to:
Indicate your preference for the Luddy LLC
Answer the three Luddy LLC questions in 150 to 200 words
Pay the $200 application fee, which is used for LLC events and programs
Start your housing application
What happens next
You’ll be notified if your housing application has been chosen for the second round of review. If you’re selected to live in the Luddy LLC, you’ll be notified by June 1.
Explore IU Bloomington housing and dining
Both our learning communities and our more traditional housing options at IU enrich the campus experience and make you feel at home. Review IU housing resources, from costs to policies.
Explore IU housing and dining
Other ways to get involved on campus
With over 20 student clubs and organizations, there’s no shortage of ways to get involved outside of the Luddy Living Learning Center.
See all of Luddy’s student organizations
to see what Luddy students can do on campus.
Contact the Luddy LLC team
For more information about the Luddy's learning community, write to
sicelive@iu.edu
. Or,
start your housing application for the Luddy LLC today
.
Living Learning Center
Educational Experiences
Student Organizations
Pacesetters
Precollege Summer Programs
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Hackathon