[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/student-life/educational-experiences.html

Home
Student Life
Educational Experiences
Luddy Educational Experiences
Experience more with Luddy trips!
Luddy External Trips gives students the chance to explore the world in ways beyond the classroom! Studying abroad isn't just about traveling to new places, it's about gaining a deeper understanding of your field by experiencing it firsthand. Students who travel on Luddy trips will bond with new friends and make connections that will help both in college and beyond. It's a great way to step outside the classroom and learn in a real-world setting.
Being a part of Luddy External Trips means making memories that will last a lifetime and experiences that will enrich your education. There are excellent opportunities for everyone, whether it is travelling domestically on a Luddy Tech Tour, visiting conferences, traveling abroad on a tech-focused service learning trip, or a semester abroad with IU Global.
Travel domestically with Luddy Tech Tours
Luddy offers unique opportunities to learn about real-world technology and it's implementation.
A few of our domestic trips
Indianapolis Tech Tour (Pacers)
Come for a behind the scenes walkthrough of the tech buildout for a Pacer's game, and then finish off the day with seats at an Indiana Pacers game. This trip is available for any Luddy student.
Chicago Tech Tour
Visit and network with Chicago's biggest companies, see the museums and monuments of Chicago, and enjoy some great deep-dish pizza. This trip is an intense day full of activities, waking up early to leave and returning at midnight. This trip is available for any Luddy student.
San Francisco Tech Tour
Travel to San Francisco with the Luddy LLC during Spring break for a weeklong trip. This trip features the beautiful hills of the city of San Francisco, unparalleled access to tours of Silicon Valley giants, including ServiceNow and incredible west-coast culture. Endless opportunities to make memories in the many parks, restaurants and monuments of California. This trip is only available for Luddy LLC Students.
Attend conferences as a Luddy student
A team of Luddy students, who contribute a small fee, are sponsored to attend these conferences, representing the best and brightest of Luddy. Hosted across the USA, these conferences provide students with professional competencies and the opportunity to explore life in many new and unique cities beyond their academic experiences.
Afro Tech Conference
National Society of Black Engineers
Society of Women Engineers
Grace Hopper
SHPE
Traveling abroad to Ghana changed my perspective on the world. My best advice for new students? Travel as much as you can. You will expand your education beyond the classroom and it will help you build friendships that will last a lifetime!
Louison Savarese '2025
Education abroad
Experience new cultures in other countries, develop your technical skills and build new friendships.
Our programs include:
Study abroad programs,
from short-term trips to yearlong stays
Global IT and Development,
an eight-week class about a country followed by a 10-day trip
Service-learning trips,
initiatives like undertaking a service project focused on enhancing Internet access in a rural community
Exchange programs
with universities in other countries
Discover more study abroad opportunities at Luddy ->
A few of our trips abroad
Ghana Tech Trek
Service Learning
The Ghana Tech Trek is Luddy's current Service Learning trip. It gives a team of dedicated students to spend time in Ghana schools to teach students computer science skills.
Explore the Ghana trip
Seoul
Student Exchange
Exchange students will enroll in courses in the College of Information and Communication Engineering, at SKKU and in courses in Korean language and culture.
Explore the Seoul trip
United Kingdom
HCI & UX Design
Work with PhD and Postdocs students at Northumbria University and Newcastle University on Digital Civics, focusing on leveraging technologies to broaden citizen engagement with through local communities.
Explore the UK trip
Living Learning Center
Educational Experiences
Student Organizations
Pacesetters
Precollege Summer Programs
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Hackathon