[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/student-life/student-recognition-celebration.html

Home
Student Life
Student Recognition Celebration
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Student Recognition Celebration
The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering will host the Class of 2025 Student Recognition Celebration, featuring brief remarks from our Dean Joanna Millunchick.
We are always looking for student speakers for the celebration. If you have an interest, please let us know by
applying to speak
by April 6.
Reserve your place
Undergraduate students
May 9, 2025 at 9:00 am
IU Auditorium
1211 E. 7th Street
Bloomington, IN 47408
Graduate students
May 8, 2025 at 4:00 pm
IU Auditorium
1211 E. 7th Street
Bloomington, IN 47408
Celebration details
Reception immediately following the ceremony, we will host a reception with light refreshments at the Luddy School!
Dress Code:
Business professional
Transportation:
Transportation will be available to take you and guests to and from the IU Auditorium. Parking details will be sent out in April.
Bag Checks:
Per Indiana University's recommendation, all bags and personal items will be subject to inspection by onsite security personnel. These quick inspections will take place at the entrance to the Auditorium for guests and during the lineup for graduates. Please allow enough time to arrive at the venue to get through the security checkpoints.
Questions:
Any questions regarding the Luddy Celebration, please contact us at
sicesrc@iu.edu
.
Accessibility needs or other questions, please can reach out at
sicesrc@iu.edu
Live Broadcast:
For any guests unable to make it to the ceremony, the entire event will be
broadcast live
.
Campus Commencement:
You may find more information about the campus commencement on the official
IU Commencement website
.
Cap and Gown:
Rentals are available
for your cap and gown for the IU ceremony.
Reserve your place
Living Learning Center
Educational Experiences
Student Organizations
Pacesetters
Precollege Summer Programs
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Hackathon