[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/four-plus-one-programs.html

Home
Academics
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Accelerated Master's and 4+1 Programs
Earn two degrees in five years
Accelerated degree paths allow you to earn a master's degree in just one year following your bachelor’s program. For one additional year of study, you receive an advanced degree, become better prepared for a specialized career, and have a higher earning potential as you join the workforce.
Some accelerated master’s degrees are open only to students in certain majors, while others are open to all IU Bloomington undergraduates across campus.
4+1 M.S. in Data Science–Residential
Add an M.S. in Data Science to your bachelor’s major, minor, or specialization in one year.
4+1 M.S. Data Science–Online
Add an M.S. in Data Science to your bachelor’s major, minor, or specialization in one year.
4+1 Master of Information Science (M.I.S.)
Learn how to design, develop, and manage information technologies in one extra year of classes.
4+1 Master of Library Science (M.L.S.)
Add onto the bachelor's degree you're already earning and prepare for a career as a librarian.
Accelerated M.S. in Computer Science
Add one year of study to your B.S. in Computer Science to strengthen and expand your technical skills.
Accelerated M.S. in Secure Computing
Add one year of study to your B.S. in Computer Science to  earn a master's that will help you specialize in cybersecurity.
Accelerated M.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Already pursuing a STEM degree at IU? Add a master's degree in this future-focused branch of engineering in just one more year.
Accelerated Master of Information Systems (M.S.I.S)
Prepare for a career that blends technical skill and business savvy. A partnership between Luddy and IU Kelley School of Business, this program is open to informatics majors.
4+1 M.S. in Informatics (Animal Informatics Track)
Pursue a career that blends animal studies and technology by adding one year of coursework to your Informatics B.S. Students in the Animal Behavior program are also eligible for this degree.
How it works
First, request permission to enroll in your selected program from your advisor. Some accelerated programs have specific major requirements and application deadlines, so it’s important to verify with your advisor that you are on the right track.
During your senior year, you will take at least one graduate-level course while you are still classified as an undergraduate. You will continue to be classified as an undergraduate through the last semester you are enrolled in undergrad requirements. You have to complete at least 21 hours of coursework while classified as a grad student.
Costs
For the semesters you are in graduate status, you will pay the same tuition and fees as other M.S. students.
Learn about costs and financial aid
Undergraduate scholarships and funding
Transitioning to graduate student status may affect any undergrad scholarships or other funding you have. Make sure to check on this and plan for it.
Ready to get started?
Schedule a meeting
with your advisor or email
GoLuddy@iu.edu
to learn more about pursuing an accelerated master's at Luddy.
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support