[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/admissions/index.html

Home
Admissions
Admissions
The future is what you make it—and it starts with applying
Most people think about
their
future. You also think about
the
future.
What can you create that no one’s made before? What will tomorrow bring, and how will you shape it?
Our
undergraduate programs
and
graduate programs
prepare ambitious, inventive students like you for
great careers
. Your first step: apply.
Newly Admitted Undergraduates
Get in the know!
Start here
Undergraduates
Whether you're a high school student, looking for a second undergraduate degree, or wanting to change majors, start here.
Graduates
Information for masters and doctorial admissions.
Scholarships, costs, and financial aid
What a Luddy education costs and ways you can pay for it
Visit us
Imagine yourself as a student here.
Luddy’s multidisciplinary approach embraces students and their various passions by empowering them with both the technology and soft skills necessary for success in today’s in-demand tech careers. My experience at Luddy was truly transformative.
Tara Aggarwal, BS and BSB’22, Computer Science and Marketing
The Luddy Living Learning Center
When it’s time to apply for your IU housing, consider the Luddy LLC. You’ll live with other Luddy students, giving you immediate friends and a natural study group. You’ll also attend special programs like networking with tech leaders.
Learn about our living learning center
Not a senior yet? Come to a summer program.
You’ll learn about the latest technology and work on cool projects. Plus, you’ll get a feel for what college life is like.
Explore our summer programs
International students
Many students and faculty members in Luddy and throughout Indiana University come from outside the United States. The university and our school offer many types of support for you and a global community that we hope you will join.
Learn about international student support
Your tomorrow starts now
Plan a visit
Learn how to apply
Undergraduates
Graduates
Transfer Applicants
Cost, Financial Aid, & Scholarships
Student Ambassadors