[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/career-services/index.html

Home
Careers
Careers
Our students get today’s jobs and prepare for tomorrow’s careers
Technology, information, and engineering jobs are in great demand. Our students get them.
But stellar hiring rates are just the start. Our
undergraduate programs
,
graduate programs
, and career services prepare you for anything your career will hold—from succeeding in your first job to shaping the future of your field.
Employers
Luddy students are inventive, ambitious, skilled—and perfect for your needs. Learn about hiring our students.
Current students
Looking for tools as an active Luddy student? Find all the help you need in our Student Portal.
Who can use Luddy’s career services?
Undergraduates, master’s students, Ph.D. students, and even
alumni
can use our services.
You have access to Handshake and all of our career services if you are earning a major/degree, minor, or certificate in Luddy or if you have completed at least 6 credit hours of Luddy classes. Undergraduates who don’t meet these criteria can contact Luddy Career Services at
luddycareers@iu.edu
to evaluate their goals and start their career planning.
Job and internship postings, resume help, interview prep, and much more
Choosing a career path and starting that career can feel daunting. Don’t worry—the Career Services office is here to help.
Come see us early and often, and use Handshake to get essential career info and access many of our services, including applying for jobs and internships.
Coaching on your resume, interviewing, job search, and more
Our expert coaches will guide you one-on-one through every step of your career process, from polishing your resume to navigating job offers and salary negotiations.
Courses that help you develop your career and get experience
Learn to search for jobs and manage your career like a pro in Y395 Career Development, an eight-week, 1 credit hour course. Each undergrad major has its own version of Y395. Luddy also offers several capstone and
internship courses
.
Attend the Luddy Career Fair and other events
Held each September and January, the Luddy Career Fair brings more than 100 employers to campus. We also host a variety of career workshops and employer events.
View our career fairs
Apply for jobs and internships
Handshake
lists a wide range of positions you can apply for, from part-time work you can do now to full-time positions. Other ways to get work and career experience include
Laurie Burns McRobbie Serve IT Clinic
,
research opportunities
, on-campus jobs (see
Jobs at IU
),
volunteering
, and the Bloomington Technology Partnership.
Our No. 1 tip for career success:
Start early. The sooner you start working with us, the more opportunities you will have.
2022 Career Services Highlights
98%
of bachelor’s degree graduates were employed or in graduate school
242
organizations hired our students for full-time employment or internships
1,086
interviews were conducted on campus
I am a huge advocate for reaching out to Career Services. I can say without a doubt that the people who work there were my biggest support system.
Stephy Mathew, MS’17, user experience researcher at LinkedIn
More information
International students
Get help with the H-1B visa process—and improve your chances of getting job offers—with the IU Immigration Bridge Program, offered by the IU Office of International Services.
Your responsibilities
See what’s expected of you during the application, interview, and employment offer processes.
Contact Career Services
Luddy Hall, first floor
812-856-4903
luddycareers@iu.edu
See the Career Services staff
Hire Our Students
Career Outcome Data
Alumni Services