[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/about/plan-visit.html

Home
About
Plan a Visit
Plan a Visit to the Luddy School
See what your tomorrow can be
You’ve imagined your future. Now visit IU’s Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, where you can make it possible.
You’ll learn all about our school and the inventive things you can do here, and—bonus—you’ll get to see Indiana University’s stunning campus and the ideal college town, Bloomington.
Schedule your Luddy visit
Register Now
Schedule your IU visit and Luddy info session
When you sign up for an IU tour, be sure to register for an afternoon visit to the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering. Luddy information sessions are available at 2pm Monday through Friday during the academic year.
At the Luddy information session, you’ll learn about:
Luddy technology degrees
Career outcomes and opportunities
IU and Luddy student life
You’ll also:
Meet current Luddy student ambassadors
Take a tour of our spectacular, state-of-the-art Luddy Hall facilities and makerspaces
Visit our Luddy Living Learning Center, located in Teter Quad
Register for IU and Luddy Information Sessions
If the IU information session is full/booked on the day you plan to visit campus, but you’d still like to visit Luddy, please reach out to
luddyrec@iu.edu
to inquire about joining our 2pm information session on the day of your visit to campus!
"Your information session and tour were by far the most professional, informative, and impressive."
Luddy information session guest
Virtual events
Unable to attend in person?
While we highly encourage all prospective families to visit in person, we have options for those who want an initial virtual experience with Luddy or are otherwise unable to travel to campus. We are offering our information sessions via Zoom on the following days from 7-8pm ET:
Join us for the following virtual sessions to learn more:
Wednesday, April 9
Register for a Luddy virtual info session
Unfiltered!
Connect with current Luddy student ambassadors for an unfiltered look at what it's like to be a Luddy student. Learn about different topics at each event, but feel free to bring any and all of your questions about IU, Luddy, and transitioning to college!
All sessions run 7-7:45pm Eastern Time via
Zoom
April 17, 2025 – research and student orgs
Other ways to learn about IU Bloomington and the Luddy School
Watch a video tour of Luddy Hall
Tag along with student ambassadors on a virtual tour of spectacular Luddy Hall
Learn about the Luddy School from Fred Luddy
Learn about the Luddy School and our facilities from our generous benefactor, Fred Luddy
Take an IU Virtual Tour
Take a virtual tour of our beautiful campus
Connect with current students
Email our student ambassadors to ask questions or request a one-on-one virtual chat!
Review Luddy School and IU Admissions information
Whether you are an IU student seeking admission to Luddy or an incoming freshman interested in our technology degrees and rich student life,
review Luddy School admissions information
and
financial aid offerings
.
Learn how to apply to IU’s Luddy School
Plan a Visit
Luddy Strategic Plan
Leadership
Luddy Hall & Facilities
Meet Fred Luddy