[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/career-services/hire-our-students/index.html

Home
Careers
Hire Our Students
Hire Our Students
Find students who are skilled, hardworking, ambitious, creative, and ready for anything
Employers love to hire our students for many reasons, from their inventiveness to their preparedness for an ever-changing world—and your field’s ever-changing demands.
Another reason: we make it easy. At Luddy Career Services, we go above and beyond to help you create a Luddy-specific recruiting strategy and find the best candidates for your needs. Contact us to get started, or see how you can recruit at Luddy.
Learn about recruiting Luddy students
Contact the Luddy Employer Relations team!
812-856-4903
hireluddy@iu.edu
We've partnered with Handshake
In Handshake, IU’s online career management portal, you can:
Register for our Career Fair and other events
Request interview schedules
Search student profiles and connect with students directly
Log into or sign up for Handshake
Programs that fit your needs
The 4,000 students in Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering choose among degrees that span many fields in technology, computing, information, and engineering. In other words, you’ll have a variety of great candidates to choose from.
Undergraduate programs
Graduate programs
Luddy students are extremely adaptable and are driven to succeed. That scrappy tenacity works well at Blue Horseshoe and drives professional and personal growth. We love our IU grads!
Kara Taylor, recruiter, Blue Horseshoe
2022 recruiting highlights
98%
of bachelor’s degree graduates were employed or in graduate school within six months of graduation
242
companies hired our students for full-time employment or internships
1,086
interviews were conducted on campus
349+
unique companies posted positions for our students
Interested in hiring international students?
The IU Immigration Bridge Program will help you navigate the H-1B visa process to make excellent international hires. The IU Office of International Services offers the program.
Learn about the IU Immigration Bridge Program
Invest in your future employees
... including exclusive recruiting opportunities, such as:
Invitation to exclusive fall reception with highest-achieving students
Special designation and priority placement at Luddy Career Fairs
Introduction to faculty and insider analysis of student populations
Additional programming opportunities, including collaboration with the Luddy Living Learning Center
Personal contact with the executive associate dean for academic affairs
Recognition in the School's marketing and visual displays
And more!
Learn more about corporate partnerships
Hire Our Students
Recruit Luddy Students
Career Fair - Employers
Hiring International Students
Career Outcome Data
Alumni Services