[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/undergraduate-programs/bs-cybersecurity-global-policy.html

Home
Academics
Undergraduate Programs
B.S. in Cybersecurity and Global Policy
B.S. in Cybersecurity and Global Policy
Security on a global scale
Talk to a recruiter
Estimate tuition
Apply Now
A partnership with the College of Arts and Sciences and the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies, this degree provides an in-depth understanding of the technology behind cyber and networked systems, and its global social policy implications.
Our first of its kind B.S. in Cybersecurity and Global Policy is a collaborative partnership between the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies. It will provide students with both the technical and policy expertise needed to excel in this high-demand, rapidly expanding field. Students will gain a sophisticated understanding of programming, data structures, networked systems, and security protocols while also learning about the wide range of privacy, cultural, economic, legal, security, and diplomacy issues surrounding the field of cybersecurity.
Let's stay in touch
Complete this form to learn more about cybersecurity and global policy at IU.
Luddy Undergraduate Marketing Campaign
Name
*
First
Last
Email
*
Expected High School Graduation Year
*
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Interested Major
Any
Cybersecurity and Global Policy
Computer Science
Data Science
Informatics
Intelligent Systems Engineering
UTM Campaign
UTM Source
UTM Medium
UTM Content
UTM Term
Stream
A growing field
$102,600
Median Annual Wages, Information Security Analysts, Bureau of Labor Statistics
35%
Estimated job growth, 2021-2031 via Bureau of Labor Statistics
Globally, there are roughly 1.5 million cybersecurity job openings, and they rank among the highest paying in technology. Both public and private entities are in a daily battle to secure their networked systems against malicious attackers, and our graduates will enter the job force with technical, communication, area culture, legal, and policy-making skills to allow them to work closely with a wide range of experts in every industry sector.
Our graduates will understand how to explore the ways in which we perceive ourselves and the world, the way we communicate and engage with one another, and how we can strengthen the boundaries that protect our sensitive information and privacy.
From global terrorism and securing elections to combating the spread of misinformation and defending the data that is collected, understanding the risks and cultural impact of technology policy around the world is more important than ever. Our students will be on the frontline of the fight to secure our data, identities, and financial transactions.
Our interdisciplinary curriculum in technical, policy, and social foundations will give graduates the skills they need to make an impact.
Administration
Jean Camp
Director of Cybersecurity and Global Policy Program
ljcamp@indiana.edu
Isak Nti Asare
HLS Director, Cybersecurity and Global Policy Program
intiasar@iu.edu
Degree Requirements
2023-24 bulletin
2022-23 bulletin
2021-22 bulletin
Want to learn more?
Contact
luddyrec@indiana.edu
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
hlsadmit@iu.edu
Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support