[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/student-life/summer-camp.html

Home
Student Life
Precollege Summer Programs
Precollege Summer Programs
Explore technology and everything you can do with it
You love technology. Come explore your passion at Indiana University’s Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering Precollege Summer Programs. You’ll learn about the latest tech, get experience using it, and see what one of the nation’s best technology schools is like.
Luddy Precollege Summer STEM Camp 2025
July 20-26
Program fee: $850
Apply now
The 2025 Luddy Precollege Program is a
residential
program, scheduled to take place in person on the beautiful IU campus, where high school students will explore how the Luddy community uses and designs computational tools to solve problems in engineering, science, and society. Participants will learn to use the python programming language to control a multiplicity of systems, interact with experts across our school, and gain a broad vision for computing in the 21st century.
Topics include:
intelligent sound-processing
microbiome gene sequencing
collecting scientific data using robots
3D modeling and photogrammetry
virtual world design
strategic intelligence
cryptocurrencies
smart homes and automation
makerspaces
cybersecurity
designing for humans and animals, and more.
Other program details:
Who: Students entering grades 10-12
No experience is necessary to participate; participants will be grouped according to skill level, and all students will be given the support they need to succeed.
Questions?
Contact our Summer Camp team at
luddycmp@iu.edu
.
Young Women's Cybersecurity Immersion Camp 2025
June 23-27
Program fee: $300
Apply now
This week-long interactive virtual camp is designed for women who are interested in exploring the ever-expanding field of cybersecurity. Participants will work in teams to design their own projects while getting hands-on experience with popular cybersecurity tools and technology, including Wireshark, Nmap, and more. This year's camp will include a focus on Artificial Intelligence (AI). Students with little to no technical background are encouraged to apply.
Other program details:
Who: Students entering grades 9-12
Questions?
Contact our Summer Camp team at
luddycmp@iu.edu
.
"One of the most exciting parts of the program was when we visited Assembly Hall and got to see the technology that’s used to capture game-time footage that’s used to analyze the basketball program. It was fascinating to see behind-the-scenes virtual reality technology and computer labs in action. I also loved meeting new students from around the country, working with Luddy faculty and staff, and spending time with current students who were our counselors!”
Meredith Fain, current Luddy computer science B.S. major and former summer program participant
Living Learning Center
Educational Experiences
Student Organizations
Pacesetters
Precollege Summer Programs
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Hackathon