[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/research/student-research/index.html

Home
Research
Student Research
Student Research
Start shaping tomorrow now
Luddy’s breadth gives you limitless possibilities for your research, and you can start your ambitious projects as early as your first year.
Our students have worked on projects ranging from mobile augmented reality applications to a robot that helps address the needs of the homeless to neural networks for identifying characteristics of dyslexia in children’s handwriting.
You will gain valuable experience, enhance your skills, explore new ideas, and increase your marketability. And you can showcase your work in symposia, conferences, and competitions here and around the world.
Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)
The National Science Foundation Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) program offers undergraduate students’ meaningful involvement with faculty on grant-supported research. Students can apply for 8- or 10-week summer sessions or an academic semester. Summer sessions are open to undergraduate students from IU and other institutions, while academic semester opportunities are limited to undergraduate students from IU only. All applications are received through the online portal, unless noted in the opportunity.
Learn more about REU opportunities at Luddy
How do I join a research project?
The Student Research Handbook provides students with information about all the Luddy research areas and faculty involved. There is also a sample message to faculty that you can use as a template for your initial contact.
Also, Luddy students have established the
Luddy Tribune
, a periodic newsletter directed to students that highlights individual faculty and their research. The Tribune is sent directly to students through their email and posted on monitors available throughout Luddy.
Explore research in your Luddy department
Computer Science
Data Science
Informatics
Information and Library Science
Intelligent Systems Engineering
Statistics
From Luddy to Amazon
For three years at Luddy, Shayan Khokhar played a lead role in creating a knee-brace-based fitness tracker and mobile app called MuscleMemory. Conducted under the mentorship of
Katie Siek
in the
Proactive Health Lab
, his work earned him an undergraduate research award from IU.
The project also improved his programming, writing, and professional skills. He drew on those skills to land a highly competitive software development internship with Amazon, which led to a full-time job.
Faculty Directory
Luddy Faculty Fellows
Faculty Achievement Awards
Research Centers and Labs
Research Areas
Student Research
Research Experiences for Undergraduates