[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/undergraduate-programs/index.html

Home
Academics
Undergraduate Programs
Undergraduate Programs
The degrees of tomorrow
Explore our majors and other undergraduate programs to find out what you’ll do here and how it’ll prepare you for your career and life. You’ll also learn how you can customize your degree to your goals.
Bachelor's degrees
If you’re interested in computer science, make sure you note the difference between the B.S. in Computer Science—which is offered here in the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering—and the B.A. in Computer Science, offered by the College of Arts and Sciences, along with the B.S. in Statistics.
Add a Luddy major
If you're a student in a different IU Bloomington school,
here's how to add or switch to a Luddy major
.
B.S. in Computer Science
The Bachelor of Science is the more technical of IU’s undergrad degrees in computer science. You’ll learn computing theory and how to use computers to solve problems, preparing you for a variety of in-demand jobs.
B.S. in Cybersecurity and Global Policy
A partnership with the College of Arts and Sciences and the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies, this degree provides an in-depth understanding of both the technology behind cyber and networked systems and the global social policy implications.
B.S. in Data Science
Learn the tools and methods needed to turn data into knowledge while improving data-driven decision making. Our collaborative program will help you shape the way people approach everything from the environment, business, safety, and more.
B.S. in Informatics
Learn technical, organizational, and communication skills that will help you facilitate the intersections between technology and people. Concentrate your study in any one of 21 disciplines, from business analytics to computer security.
B.S. in Intelligent Systems Engineering
Become a forward-thinking engineer. Driven by artificial intelligence and computing, this project-based program teaches you to design and build computerized devices and the systems that work with them.
College of Arts and Sciences degrees
These programs are administered and conferred from IU's College of Arts and Sciences.
B.A. in Computer Science
The Bachelor of Arts is for students who also want to study the liberal arts through a second major or a minor from IU’s College of Arts and Sciences, which administers and confers this degree.
Introductory course descriptions
CSCI-C 200: Introduction to Computers and Programming
– This course focuses on using programming (Python) to explore problems for a wide range of other disciplines. Students write programs that identify and analyze real (e.g., financial, biological, and social) data.
CSCI-C 211: Introduction to Computer Science
– This course focuses on a step-by-step approach to problem solving with programs. The programs students write include several small graphical computer games (Dr. Racket).
ENGR-E 101: Innovation and Design
– This course introduces students to foundational engineering concepts as well as some of the concentration areas within the program through interactive lectures and hands-on activity quests.
INFO-I 101: Introduction to Informatics
– This course gives a broad overview of the program and introduces students to some basic tech concepts, including work with front-end web design and databases.
INFO-I 123: Data Fluency
– This course covers basic principles of data and how it is interpreted and used.
NOTE:
There are no prerequisites for any of the above Luddy introductory courses and they do not require prior coding experience (but it can be helpful).
Certificates and minors
Any IU Bloomington student can add a Luddy certificate or minor. If you’re in a school other than Luddy, make sure to get approval from your school’s recorder.
Certificate in Informatics
More in-depth than the informatics minor, this certificate will give you a strong foundation of informatics skills to use in your chosen career.
Minor in Animal-Computer Interaction
Discover how technology can improve the lives of animals from their health and well-being to protecting their environments.
Minor in Computer Science
Add computer science to your skill set and open yourself to a wider range of career possibilities.
Minor in Data Science
Learn the foundational skills that will allow you to turn raw data into information that can be analyzed, interpreted, and applied across domains.
Minor in Human-Centered Computing
Explore the social and cultural aspects of computing, including design, human-computer interaction, multimedia, and more.
Minor in Human-Computer Interaction/Design
Learn the conceptual knowledge and practical skills to design and develop technology and experiences that are functional and intuitive.
Minor in Informatics
Get a working knowledge of the application of technology that will help you out no matter what career you choose.
Minor in Information Technology
Learn about programming, network technology, and interface or web programming when you minor in information technology.
Minor in Intelligence Studies
Learn how to collect and critique the perspectives, biases, and contexts of sources before utilizing them for analysis.
Minor in Security Informatics
Learn about the challenges, techniques, technology, and human impact of information security.
Minor in Virtual Reality
Build the skills needed to design and apply immersive environments, augmented reality, and 3D interactive multimedia that blends technology with the real world.
Minor in Web Design and Development
Learn how to design, build, and deploy websites, web apps, mobile apps, wearable devices, and more.
Consider a certificate or minor from another IU school
An outside certificate or minor can give you valuable experience in a non-tech field you like—and could help your resume stand out.
Consult with your
Luddy advisor
, and contact the undergraduate recorder’s office in the other IU school to declare your certificate or minor.
Informatics students, your
cognate
may already meet all the requirements for an outside minor—so you can earn a minor without taking more classes.
Learn more about earning a bachelor’s degree at the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
If you’re interested in any of our undergraduate degrees or certificate programs,
request more information
to get started. Or, contact the appropriate
Luddy academic department
.
Ready to apply to the Luddy School at Indiana University Bloomington? Learn how
.
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support