[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/align/index.html

Home
Academics
Luddy ALIGN
Luddy ALIGN
Luddy ALIGN
Applied + Leadership + Industry + Government + Networking.
Faculty and student resources
Standardized Project Agreements
ELA Report Form
The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering utilizes applied learning to solve real-world problems. Whether it’s student startup development or university-supported research projects, the focus is on students taking what they learn in the classroom and using it to serve society. The initiative consists of
Community Engaged Learning
,
Faculty-Directed Initiatives
, and
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
. ALIGN provides three key functions to facilitate students’ personal and professional development:
Client Engagement
: Match opportunities provided by clients with the ideal partners on campus, such as a classroom guided by a professor, a lab led by a researcher, or a student organization advised by a faculty member.
Client Matching
: Consultation with faculty and students to ensure proper placement of projects based on aligning established learning objectives with clients’ needs and expectations.
Student Preparation
: Teach students to professionally engage clients and deliver solutions based on the scientific method and polished through workshops tailored to reinforce the importance of providing and demonstrating value to the client.
The Luddy School hosts an array of centers and programs which support the ALIGN mission of facilitating practical, applied projects which drive value for clients while producing socially adept technical professionals.
Request a Follow-up
Pavan Idnani
Luddy Align Student
Today
Teaching essential IT skills, such as working with Microsoft Excel and basic programming languages, to students grades 3 through 5 as an intern with Teach IT through the Laurie Burns McRobbie Serve IT Clinic.
Tomorrow
Help clients understand how to better use technology to meet their needs and using the critical thinking, time management, organization, and leadership skills he learned as a Luddy student.
Without the Shoebox, I would not have been able to form my team, get the legal and financial resources I needed to build my product, or have a community of supportive advisors.
Casey Curtis, Shoebox Client
Vertically Integrated Projects
A Vertically Integrated Project (VIP) is a method for elevating higher education. It involves the active participation of both undergraduate and graduate students in extensive, multidisciplinary project teams, which are characterized by their ambitious, long-term nature and faculty leadership. This program aims to increase experiential learning experience students while serving the community.
Learn more about VIP's at Luddy Align.
Meet our team
Travis Brown
Senior Executive Assistant Dean of Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Commercialization
trabrown@iu.edu
(812) 856-4500
Una Thacker
Director, Community Engaged Learning
unwinter@iu.edu
(812) 856-7402
Rebekah Sinders
Project Manager
rsinders@iu.edu
(812) 856-4040
Sue Rall
Administrative Assistant
srall@iu.edu
If you are interested in supporting the Luddy School’s mission to provide applied learning opportunities for IU students, please contact
ALIGN@iu.edu
.
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
Community Engaged Learning
Faculty-Directed Initiatives
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
External Experiential Programs
International Student Support