[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/contact/profile/index.html?Colin_Gray

Home
Contact
profile
Profile of Colin Gray
Colin M. Gray
HCI/d Program Director
Associate Professor of Informatics
Email:
comgray@iu.edu
Office:
Myles Brand Hall | Room:
E301
Website:
https://colingray.me
Office Hours
Mondays
from 12:00-1:00pm
Other times by appointment (reach out via email or Slack)
All student hours are held in the HCI/d Studio (3rd floor of Myles Brand, north side)
Education
Ph.D. in Instructional Systems Technology at Indiana University, Bloomington, 2014
M.Ed. in Educational Technology at University of South Carolina, 2010
M.A. in Graphic Design at Savannah College of Art & Design, 2008
Courses Taught at Luddy
I541 Introduction to HCI/d
I543 Interaction Design Methods
I590 HCI/d Studio Practice
I694 Thesis/Project in Human-Computer Interaction
Biography
Colin M. Gray is an Associate Professor in the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering at Indiana University Bloomington, where they are Director of the Human-Computer Interaction design (HCI/d) program. They hold appointments as Guest Professor at Beijing Normal University and Visiting Researcher at Newcastle University.
Colin holds a PhD in Instructional Systems Technology from Indiana University Bloomington, a MEd in Educational Technology from University of South Carolina, and a MA in Graphic Design from Savannah College of Art & Design. They have worked as an art director, contract designer, and trainer, and their involvement in design work informs their research on design activity and how design capability is learned. Colin's research focuses on the ways in which the pedagogy and practice of designers informs the development of design ability, particularly in relation to ethics, design knowledge, and learning experience. They have consulted on multiple legal cases relating to dark patterns and data protection and work with regulatory bodies and non-profit organizations to increase awareness and action relating to deceptive and manipulative design practices. Colin's research and engagement activities cross multiple disciplines, including human-computer interaction, instructional design and technology, law and policy, design theory and education, and engineering and technology education.
Colin is proudly gay/queer and non-binary and uses
they/them
pronouns.
Luddy Research Areas
Crosscutting
Artificial Intelligence @Luddy
HCI@Luddy
Security and Privacy@Luddy
Teaching and Learning @Luddy
Intradepartmental
Computing, Culture, and Society
Human Computer Interaction and Design
Social Informatics
Departmental
Update your profile
Request Information
People Directory