[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/index.html

we design
we code
we analyze
we organize
we engineer
we design
we build
we invent
we connect
we program
we preserve
we create
we secure
we solve
we see
We see
tomorrow
The future is all around us.
The ideas and inspiration for the next world-changing advances and life-saving solutions are everywhere.
Most people don’t see them, but we do.
We see what tomorrow can be, and we shape it every day.
Undergrad programs
Including bachelor’s degrees in computer science, informatics, and intelligent systems engineering.
Graduate programs
Many master’s and Ph.D. programs, as well as dual degrees, specializations, and certificates.
Research
Projects that cross disciplines and defy the limits of the imagination.
Luddy in the news
Luddy Ph.D. student wins Three-Minute Thesis challenge
Luddy School raises the bar as iConference 2025 host
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
Luddy School students part of winning GT-IDEA Case Study team
Luddy’s Radicchi co-authors groundbreaking study
See more news
Explore our departments
Computer Science
The Department of Computer Science teaches students to use computers to develop fast, scalable, and secure solutions to a range of problems—and to make incredible ideas possible.
Data Science
In the Data Science Program, students learn how to use data to solve problems, unite communities, transform industries, prevent disasters, and most importantly, improve lives.
Informatics
The Department of Informatics gives students the technical, organizational, and communications skills they need to bridge the gap between technology and the people who use it.
Information and Library Science
At the Department of Information and Library Science, students learn how to curate, organize, and disseminate information to make it more useful to local and global communities.
Intelligent Systems Engineering
Using artificial intelligence and computing, students in ISE engineer next-generation solutions through systems that gather and apply data and sense and react to their environments.
MICHAELA KRAWCZYK
B.S. in Informatics with a cognate in Human-Centered Computing
Today
Cox Research Scholar conducting research in media psychology, representation in science, and digital activism in relation to reproductive justice.
Tomorrow
Weaving media psychology, social computing, and gender studies with user experience to develop more socially responsible technologies in the future.
Learn about Informatics
Your tomorrow starts now
Plan a visit
Learn how to apply