[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/admissions/undergraduates.html

Home
Admissions
Undergraduates
Undergraduate admissions
Your tomorrow starts with applying
Newly admitted undergraduates
Get in the know!
If you are admitted to IU Bloomington and indicated a Luddy major on your application, you will be directly admitted into Luddy and will begin Luddy coursework at the start of your freshman year. We strongly encourage you to complete your IU application for admission by IU’s early-action non-binding deadline of November 1.
Questions? Contact us at
luddyrec@iu.edu
.
Average range GPA and test scores for Fall 2024 admitted Luddy students
Admissions criteria
Range
Average
Median
GPA
3.65-3.99
3.80
3.95
SAT scores
1290-1460
1375
1400
Note: These are not admission standards; these ranges represent the middle 50 percent of admitted students.
IU is test optional.
Luddy welcomes test-optional students. To find out if this is the right path for you, learn more about
IU’s test-optional admissions policy
.
Learn how to apply and complete your application
U.S. students
Apply to IU Bloomington through the Office of Admissions.
International students
Apply to IU Bloomington through the Office of International Services.
The Luddy Living Learning Center
When it’s time to apply for your IU housing, consider the Luddy LLC. You’ll live with other Luddy students, giving you immediate friends and a natural study group. You’ll also attend special programs like networking with tech leaders.
Learn about our living learning center
Current IU students
Change to or add a Luddy major
If you’re in a different IU school and you want to switch to one of our
majors
or add a Luddy major to what you’re already studying, you should start by meeting with one of our
advisors
.
Luddy School Prior Learning Policy
With the exception of approved transfer credit from other higher education institutions, the Luddy School awards no credit hours for prior learning experiences.
Complete your degree or earn another
Returning students
We’re excited to help you return to Luddy and finish your degree. You need to take two steps:
Meet with the
academic advisor
for your Luddy major.
Contact
siceugrd@iu.edu
to request approval to resume your studies.
Second degree students
We’re glad you’re interested in earning a second bachelor’s degree here. You have different steps depending on whether you graduated from Indiana University or a different university.
If you graduated from an IU campus
Meet with one of our
academic advisors
for students who aren’t Luddy majors yet.
Contact
siceugrd@iu.edu
to request approval to pursue a second degree.
If you graduated from a university other than IU
Contact
siceugrd@iu.edu
to request approval to pursue a second degree. We can also answer your questions about our programs and about the process to evaluate how your previous coursework would transfer to IU Bloomington.
Complete the
steps for transfer applicants
(since you have previous college credit) through the IU Bloomington Office of Admissions.
Your tomorrow starts today
Plan a visit
Undergraduates
Graduates
Transfer Applicants
Cost, Financial Aid, & Scholarships
Student Ambassadors