[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/student-life/student-organizations.html

Home
Student Life
Student Organizations
Student Organizations
Level up
Our 20+ student organizations will take your Luddy experience to new heights.
Bond with classmates. Hone your skills. Grow as a leader. Enjoy exclusive opportunities like behind-the-scenes visits to businesses. And get face time with CEOs and other executives, who partner with our organizations specifically to meet students like you.
Find organizations
This page lists Luddy’s
organizations for undergraduate and graduate students
and
organizations for graduate students only
.
To start a new Luddy organization, contact Tiana Iruoje at
tiwillia@iu.edu
.
You can also explore all 750+ IU student organizations through
beINvolved
.
Laurie Burns McRobbie Serve IT Clinic
Get professional experience while doing good. In the Serve IT clinic, students help local nonprofits with their information technology needs, from providing tech support to building databases.
Learn more about the Serve IT clinic
Organizations for undergrad and graduate students
Artificial Intelligence Club
Nurtures the use of artificial intelligence in learning and research, and it encourages and challenges students to think outside the box as it relates to artificial intelligence.
BioMedical Engineering Society
Pre-Professional organization to learn more about the profession of Biomedical Engineering through research presentations, seminars with industry professionals, networking, and workshops.
Computer Science Club
is dedicated to bringing together SICE students and enthusiasts for the fun, hands-on-parts of CS: tutorials, research, networking, collaborative projects, competition, games, and more.
Cyber Security Club
This group raises awareness surrounding cyber security issues and techniques through weekly peer learning with other students as well as presentations from security professors and professionals.
Ideation and Creation Entrepreneurs Club (ICE)
Whether you have already imagined an idea into reality or are simply curious about entrepreneurship, we can help provide you with resources to reach your goal.
INgineering
A group of innovative students with the goal of educating and learning different aspects of technology at Luddy while promoting engineering skills.
Luddy Student Government
The governing body of our school that deals in the company to student relationships, as well as the student to Luddy organization relationship. We focus on improving leadership and public speaking skills for Luddy students.
Machine Learning 4 All
Aims at fostering a community of future machine learning engineers or people generally interested in gaining knowledge about this field. We see the future of this organization helping smaller Bloomington companies harness the power of AI and build robust systems that can dynamically change the way they operate in a positive sense.
National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
Mission is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community.
Nothing Is Binary
A group for Luddy student, faculty, and staff who identify as GLBTQ or as allies. We meet several times a semester to engage as a community, watch movies, and share issues or concerns.
Product Management Club
We are dedicated to furthering student interest in product management as a viable career path through career building, skills development, and speaker series. We are geared towards helping students prepare for product management opportunities through resume reviews, interview prep, and personal branding. We ensure students have an outward look at current industry trends through our speaker series, where students are able to hear from PMs in the industry on their experiences, recruitment tips, and more.
Programmatik
Exists to collaboratively practice for programming interviews and to solve interesting programming problems.
Quantum Technologies for Everyone (QuTE)
QuTE aims to provide skills, platform and recognition to highly motivated students excited by the advancement of quantum computing.
Student Alumni Council
Focuses on engaging students and young alumni through fundraising and social events, developing a successful student-giving campaign, and promoting a culture of giving.
TEDx Indiana University
An annual ideas-and experience-focused conference. Organized by a team of students, it aims to bring together community members in the exploration of ideas and discussion for our collective present and future.
The Sociotechnical Ethics Society
We promote awareness and discussion of ethics in sociotechnical developments and host events throughout the semester for any interested student.
UX Design and Research Club
Organization dedicated to those interested in learning about ux through a variety of events.
Women in Computing (WIC)
A community of faculty, graduate, and undergraduate women that are dedicated to promoting, celebrating, and empowering women in technology.  Our goal is to increase the number of women in technology fields.
Women in Cybersecurity (WiCyS)
A community of engagement, encouragement and support for women in cybersecurity. WiCyS is the premier organization with national reach dedicated to bringing together women in cybersecurity from academia, research and industry to share knowledge, experience, networking and mentoring.
Spread the word about Luddy
Undergrads, tell high school students, parents, and current IU students about life at Luddy as a
Student Ambassador
or a
Pacesetter
.
Also, Luddy undergrads and graduate students can join the Social Media Team to share information about our school and events. Write to
icsocial@iu.edu
.
Organizations for graduate students only
American Library Association, Student Chapter
Strives to provide students in the Department of Information and Library Science (ILS) with a variety of social, educational, and professional development activities.
Data Science Club
This graduate student group is dedicated to learning tools and techniques for effective applied data science. Students build their skills by consulting with partners from academia and industry on short-term projects.
Graduate Informatics Student Association
A representative body for informatics doctoral students. We focus on two areas in particular: acting as a liaison between doctoral students and the department and organizing social events.
Society of American Archivists, Student Chapter
Strives to serve students at IU and the surrounding area who are interested in any form of archiving.
Society of Art Librarianship
Promotes professional development, facilitates networking among members and art librarians, organizes informational talks by professionals, and visits fine arts libraries.
Special Libraries Association (SLASG)
Dedicated to helping MLS students develop their professional goals beyond the traditional course lectures.
Student Music Librarianship Group
Our members work together each semester to develop new proficiencies and expertise through a series of professional development events and activities.
Living Learning Center
Educational Experiences
Student Organizations
Pacesetters
Precollege Summer Programs
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Hackathon