[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/student-life/hackathon.html

Home
Student Life
Luddy Hackathon
Luddy Hackathon
Luddy Hackathon - Create. Innovate. Lead.
Ready to sign up?
Register now!
Interested in being a mentor?
Sign up!
Welcome! The Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering will be hosting a Luddy Hackathon from April 4th - April 6th. We will begin on April 4th at 3:00 pm. The theme is to create, innovate, and lead. This is the Fourth edition of the Luddy Hackathon hosted by us, and this time we have it open to all technologies. Websites, software programs, mobile apps, games, and AI models are all eligible to be submitted.
Event details
When:
April 4th to April 6th, 2024, 3:00 PM – 9:00 PM EDT
Where:
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, 700 North Woodlawn Avenue, Bloomington, 47408 -
campus map
-
Schedule
April 4th, 2025
3:00 PM -
Registration at Luddy Hall Welcome Desk
5:00 PM -
Opening Ceremony (Dorsey Learning Center)
Our opening ceremony begins with an introduction of all of the Luddy staff and student leaders involved. We will also introduce cases for the students to decide upon.
7:30 PM -
Dinner (BLIF 1006)
Dinner is available to all participants in the Community Center (BLIF1006)!
7:30 PM -
Networking Social
After the Opening Ceremony, join a team if you have not already and select a case to work on!
11:59 PM -
End of day 1
Deadline to finalize teams & the case each team will work on (for sponsored cases).
April 5th, 2025
2:00 PM -
Typing Tournament (BLIF 1006)
Put your speed and accuracy to the test in a fast-paced typing showdown! Compete against others in timed challenges and see who has the fastest fingers on the keyboard.
4:00 PM -
Innovation Networking Event
Collaboration with student founders and hackathon participants.
April 6th, 2025
3:30 PM -
Deadline for Submissions
Deadline for all participants to submit their solutions; please ensure submissions are in on time!
4:00 PM -
Judging Begins
Judges will begin grading each case.
4:00-5:00 PM -
Drawing Session (BLIF 1006)
Unleash your creativity in a chill drawing session where you can sketch freely, follow fun prompts, or collaborate with others. Bring your tablet, notebook, or whatever you like to draw with!
6:00 PM -
Dinner Service
Dinner will be served in the Community Room (BLIF 1006).
7:00 PM -
Judging Ends
8:00 PM -
Closing Ceremony
Frequently Asked Questions
What is a hackathon? Will there be actual hacking?
A hackathon is an event where students "hack" together creative projects like apps, websites, games, and more within 24-48 hours. There will be no malicious or unauthorized hacking involved.
Is the event free to attend?
Yes! Attendance is completely free. We will provide food throughout the event, along with swag and prizes! Travel reimbursements are provided as well.
Where is the event in-person or virtual?
The event is in-person.
Where can I park?
The event takes place at Luddy Hall, 700 N Woodlawn Avenue. parking is available at the Forrest Ave Parking Garage or in the Fee Lane Parking Garage.
Please review the
Parking Map
and contact
event staff
to obtain your parking permit.
Who can attend?
This event is open to any students currently enrolled at any accredited institution.
What if I don't have any experience?
The Luddy Hackathon is beginner friendly! We'll have mentors available to guide and support your throughout the event.
Do I have to be 18?
Attendees must be at least 13 years old due to child privacy laws. If under 18, you can attend, but a university-provided liability form must be completed. This will be provided on the day of registration.
What is the team size limit?
Teams can have 2-4 members. Don't have a team yet? Join our Discord server or attend our networking event right after the opening ceremony to find teammates!
Luddy Hacks Discord
Are there travel reimbursements?
We offer travel reimbursement for students who do not attend Indiana University Bloomington or live outside Bloomington, IN. To apply, please review our Travel Information Document.
Travel Reimbursement Information
What should I bring?
Laptop and charger
Headphones
Pillow/blanket (optional but recommended)
When can we start working on our project? Can I work on a previous project?
You must begin working after the opening ceremony. While brainstorming ideas beforehand is encouraged, coding cannot start until the event officially kicks off. You cannot submit a previously started project, but you may use existing frameworks—if they’re clearly credited in your README, and your own work is distinguishable.
How many challenges can I apply for?
You can only apply for one case which will be announced at the opening ceremony. And feel free to participate in multiple fun challenges.
Do I have to stay overnight?
IU Innovates is available as an option for you. You’re welcome to stay if you’d like, but you may also leave and return later if you prefer to rest elsewhere.
What kind of activities will there be?
A detailed schedule will be released closer to the event. Expect speaker sessions, social activities, and plenty of opportunities to meet fellow hackers and our amazing sponsors.
Will hardware be available?
We will not provide hardware, but you are welcome to bring your own. Due to building fire codes, soldering kits are not allowed.
How do I sign up to be a mentor/judge/volunteer?
We’d love your help! For mentors, please fill out the form:
https://tally.so/r/w4p5vB
.
For potential judging, please email us your interest at
iuhacks@iu.edu
.
I still have a question!
No problem—email us at
iuhacks@iu.edu.
Our sponsors
Meet the team behind the Hackathon
Leadership
Tiana Iruoje
Luddy Profile
Courtland Crenshaw
Luddy Profile
Logistics
Abby Armour
Abby's Linkedin
Harsha Vardan
Harsha's Linkedin
Owen Kleinmaier
Owen's Linkedin
Rabia Ghafoor
Rabia's Linkedin
Elizabeth Jiang
Elizabeth's Linkedin
Jessica Thompson
Jessica's Linkedin
Olubade Baker
Operations
Adarsh Vulli
Adarsh's Linkedin
Marketing
Akriti Kumari
Akriti's Linkedin
Melania Updike
Melania's Linkedin
Finance
Louison Savarese
Louison's Linkedin
Wodsander Maxime
Wodsander's Linkedin
Living Learning Center
Educational Experiences
Student Organizations
Pacesetters
Precollege Summer Programs
Student Recognition Celebration
Luddy Hackathon