[Source URL]: https://luddy.indiana.edu/academics/academic-opportunities.html

Home
Academics
Academic Opportunities
Academic Opportunities
To excel tomorrow, get experience today
Prepare to innovate, make a difference, and succeed through these challenging, eye-opening experiences.
Research opportunities
Conduct research with a Ph.D. student or faculty mentor.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program
Bring your great ideas to life.
Internships
Get experience and make connections that could lead to a job.
Laurie Burns McRobbie Serve IT Clinic
Use your tech skills to help local nonprofits.
Makerspaces
Design, collaborate, learn, and create in hands-on projects.
Any type of global exposure is so valuable. Our world is becoming more interconnected, and these experiences can open your eyes to different ways of life. This is the time to do it.
Amala Afoaku, BS’16, a senior technology consultant at EY who went on a service-learning trip to Belize
Overseas study: explore technology—and more—abroad
Learn about technology in other countries, experience other cultures, and expand your career opportunities. By planning your trip wisely, you can also earn credit that counts toward your degree.
Our programs include:
Study abroad programs,
from short-term trips to yearlong stays
Global IT and Development,
an eight-week class about a country followed by a 10-day trip there
Service-learning trips,
which include a project like improving a rural community’s Internet access
Exchange programs
with universities in other countries
Explore our programs, and contact Tiana Iruoje at
tiwillia@iu.edu
with any questions.
See Luddy’s overseas programs
Learn more about overseas study at IU
Luddy Study Abroad Scholarship
Apply anytime for this undergraduate scholarship, worth $250 to $1,000.
Learn more about the Luddy Study Abroad Scholarship
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Accelerated and 4+1 Programs
Departments
Courses
Advising & Tutoring
Academic Opportunities
Luddy ALIGN
International Student Support