[Source URL]: https://medicine.iu.edu/

A national leader in medical research and education, with more than 60 academic departments and specialty divisions across nine campuses statewide.
PREPARING HEALERS. TRANSFORMING HEALTH.
We believe collaboration is what sparks creativity and innovation in health care.
Education Programs
Research
Research
Funding for biomedical research tightens nationwide, yet IU School of Medicine continues to attract new funding in critical areas of medicine.
Education
IU School of Medicine offers a robust learning and teaching environment to prepare the next generation of healers and transform health.
Patient Care
IU School of Medicine faculty provide expert primary and specialty care for patients in Indiana.
Integrated Medical Education
IU School of Medicine is the largest medical school in the United States. Comprised of five basic science departments and 20 clinical departments, IU School of Medicine offers exceptional training for students wishing to pursue a medical degree. With the Class of 2020, the school implemented a new medical education curriculum that better reflects the modern U.S. health care environment and delivery models, readying students to practice medicine in a team-based, interdisciplinary setting.
Statewide medical education centers on six core competencies.
Access to diverse patient populations reflects true state of care today.
Updates align innovations in medical science and education.
Global outreach, clinical education programs foster active learning.
Collaborative teaching and learning forges interprofessional bonds.
Academic advising and career counseling support and guide students.
Education Programs
Ready to take the next step in your medical education? Explore IU School of Medicine education programs and find requirements, curriculum and application information.
MD Program
Statewide Campus System
Residency Programs
Graduate Degrees
Continuing Education
Undergrad Health Professions Programs
Advancing Medical Research
IU School of Medicine physicians and scientists were awarded approximately $460 million in research grants and awards in federal fiscal year 2022 to study the underlying causes of disease, the development of new therapeutics and how to improve the delivery of care. Funding to IU School of Medicine specifically from the National Institutes of Health — the gold standard in medical research — totaled almost $215 million in federal fiscal year 2022. This marks the third year in a row the school has surpassed $200 million.
Explore Research
Collaborating to Transform Patient Care
With nine campuses located throughout the state of Indiana, IU School of Medicine provides students and faculty with access to a large and diverse patient population. Due to the strong collaborative partnerships between the school and statewide teaching hospitals and other clinical facilities, individuals seeking health care services from IU School of Medicine faculty receive the highest quality care that reflects advances in medical research.
Explore Patient Care
All events, programs, groups, activities, educational, cultural and historical observances are open to all members of the Indiana University community.