[Source URL]: http://mediaschool.indiana.edu/degrees/graduate/

Home
Academics
Academics
What kind of storyteller are you?
Whether you’re a freshly minted high school graduate or a scholar in the making, if your passion is telling, researching or analyzing stories, you belong at The Media School.
We offer four undergraduate degrees, three graduate programs, and 15 minors and certificates.
No matter which program you choose, you’ll spend equal time in the classroom learning and out in the field “doing.” You’ll be encouraged to engage in
research
. To get out there and
create media
. And to put what you learn to work in an
internship
or
travel experience
.
You'll graduate ready to join the ranks of successful Media School
alumni
all over the world.
The journalism education I received at IU guides every day of my work as a professional reporter.
Sehvilla Mann, MA’13, reporter for WMUK at Western Michigan University
Undergraduate studies
We offer four
undergraduate degree programs
that you can customize to match your career goals.
First, you’ll choose a major. Your options are:
Media
Journalism
Game design
Cinematic arts
If you are majoring in journalism or media, you’ll also choose a concentration. Your concentration will provide focus to your curriculum, ensuring you graduate with the skills necessary to succeed in a particular field.
Explore concentrations
Not a Media School major? Complement your degree with one of our nine
minors and certificates
.
Graduate studies
Our
graduate programs
will prepare you for either a career in the media industry or a position in academia.
If you’re interested in gaining professional skills, our
Master of Science in media
is for you. Choose one of five concentrations: data journalism, design and production, journalism, management and strategic communication.
If you’re more interested in a scholarly path, opt for a
Master of Arts
or a
Ph.D.
in media arts and sciences. Both options will prepare you for a career in media research and analysis, or academia.
No matter which graduate degree program you choose, you’ll study with top faculty in state-of-the-art facilities, with a wide variety of research resources available to you.
Learn more about our faculty
Explore research resources
Precollege programs
You don’t have to be in college to study at The Media School.
Every summer, we offer three programs for high school students who’ve already identified their passion for media: the High School Journalism Institute, the Cinema Academy, and Game Development Camp.
Learn more about our precollege programs
Start your Media School story
Apply as an undergraduate
Apply as a graduate student
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Minors & Certificates
Honors Programs
Courses
Precollege Programs