[Source URL]: https://music.indiana.edu/

Discover a new level of musical excellence
As a Jacobs student, you’ll have exceptional educational opportunities. You will learn from internationally renowned faculty, study in cutting-edge facilities, and have a broad range of performance opportunities.
You’ll also become part of a musical community unlike anything you’ve experienced. Collaboration is the name of the game here, with support for your growth and progress.
At the Jacobs School of Music, you’re free to unleash your creativity and encouraged to smash through limits you’ve placed on yourself. Join us and find out how amazing you can become.
Photos above: Professor Kevin Murphy, with students, conducting Die Fledermaus, October 2024 and a scene from September 2024's Trouble in Tahiti. Photos by Samantha Smith.
Earshot at Jacobs
We're introducing a new way to highlight what's happening at Jacobs: Feature stories!
It's the people who make Jacobs great, so every couple of weeks, we'll share a new story. This week we’re highlighting the EarShot readings that are happening soon: composers’ heaven!
Get the details
70+
degrees & programs
Find your program
7:1
student-to-faculty ratio
Learn how to apply
1,100+
performances per year
Attend an event
Perform on a regular basis
At the Jacobs School of Music, performance is part of the curriculum.
No matter what academic program you choose, you’ll have numerous opportunities to enhance what you’ve learned in the classroom through performance—live, on stage.
There are more than 1,100 performances each year—and more than three dozen ensembles you can perform with, focusing on just about any type and genre of music you can think of.
Discover our ensembles
Upcoming events
Apr
15
Concert Band – Jason H. Nam, conductor
8 p.m.
—
10 p.m.
Auer Hall
-
Apr
15
Chamber Music Recital – Students of the Historical Performance Institute
8:30 p.m.
—
10 p.m.
Recital Hall
-
Apr
16
Guest Choral Conducting Seminar Presentation – Cheryl Frazes Hill, “Margaret Hillis: Unsung Pioneer”
11:35 a.m.
—
1:05 p.m.
SM263
-
View more events
Jacobs news
Clarinetist Cecilia Kang appointed to Jacobs School of Music faculty
Jacobs School of Music appoints Adele Fournet to music production faculty
Composer Roger Neill appointed to Jacobs School of Music faculty
Read more news
Work with passionate and committed mentors
The more than 210 faculty members in residence here include internationally celebrated performers and teachers who are dedicated to inspiring and mentoring the next generation of music and dance leaders who will further shape the cultural life of our nation.
Meet our faculty
I chose the Jacobs School of Music because to be here is simply a dream come true. To get to perform on the MAC stage, and to have professors that are world-renowned, is more than I could have ever asked for.
Kathiana Dargenson, M.M. Voice, Class of '23
Join an alumni network 16,000+ strong
After you graduate, you’ll become one of our more than 16,000 alumni working as musicians, dancers, and scholars around the world.
Wherever you go, chances are there will be a Jacob School of Music alum there ready to greet and support you.
Learn more about our alumni network
Get connected
Looking for an easy way to stay in touch? Find us on social media.
Follow us on
Facebook
and
Instagram
to stay up to date with the latest news, opportunities, and events.
Begin your journey
Apply now
Schedule a visit