[Source URL]: https://music.indiana.edu/faculty/current/goldberg-halina.html

Home
Faculty
Halina Goldberg
Professor of Music (Musicology)
View full resolution
Photo by Sarah J. Slover
Phone:
812-855-7096
Email:
goldberg@iu.edu
Department:
Musicology
Simon Center, M225A
Education
Ph.D., Doctor of Philosophy,                                                                                             City University of New York Graduate Center,                                                                                             1997
M.A., Master of Arts,                                                                                             Queens College, City University of New York,                                                                                             1989
Biography
Halina Goldberg is professor of musicology at the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music and director of the
Byrnes Russian and East European Institute
at the IU Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies. She is affiliate faculty of IU's Borns Jewish Studies Program, Polish Studies Center, Institute for European Studies, and Department of Slavic and East European Languages and Cultures.
Goldberg’s interests focus on the interconnected Polish and Jewish cultures. Much of her work is interdisciplinary, engaging the areas of cultural studies, music and politics, performance practice, and reception, with special focus on nineteenth- and twentieth-century Poland and Eastern Europe, Chopin, and Jewish studies.
She is the author of
Music in Chopin’s Warsaw
(Oxford University Press, 2008; Polish translation, 2016) and editor of
The Age of Chopin: Interdisciplinary Inquiries
(Indiana University Press, 2004),
Chopin and His World
(Princeton University Press, 2017, with Jonathan Bellman),
Descriptive Piano Fantasias
(A-R Edition, 2021, with Jonathan Bellman),
Polish Jewish Culture Beyond the Capital: Centering the Periphery
(Rutgers University Press, 2023, with Nancy Sinkoff), and of a special issue of
The Musical Quarterly
, “Jewish Spirituality, Modernity, and Historicism in the Long Nineteenth Century: New Musical Perspectives.”
Goldberg has written articles on various aspects of Chopin's music, national constructs in Glinka’s music, and the participation of nineteenth-century Jewish musicians in the articulation of Polish musical identity. She is a codesigner of “In Mrs. Goldberg’s Kitchen,” the multimedia exhibit at the Central Museum of Textiles in Łódź about the Jewish quarter in pre-World War II Łódź, which received a nomination in the category of Historical Exhibits for the 2012 Sybilla Award, Poland’s most prestigious museum award.
Her other honors include the 1998 Wilk Award for Research in Polish Music (Polish Music Reference Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles) and a 2005-06 Fulbright-Hays Faculty Research Abroad grant in Poland (“National Identity, Assimilation, and Jewishness in Nineteenth-Century Polish Music”), and the 2021 H. Colin Slim Award from the American Musicological Society for the article “Chopin’s Album Leaves and the Aesthetics of Musical Album Inscription” (
Journal of the American Musicological Society
).
Goldberg is presently working on several publications related to Chopin, music in nineteenth-century albums, women in music, and Jews and Jewishness in nineteenth-century Poland. She also serves as the project director for the Digital Scholarly Commons dedicated to the study of
Jewish Life in Pre-World War II Łódź.
Faculty Directory
Faculty Bookshelf