[Source URL]: https://news.luddy.indiana.edu/story.html?story=Prestigious-journal-details-latest-Human-BioMolecular-Atlas-Program-progress

Home
News
Prestigious journal details latest Human BioMolecular Atlas Program progress
The Human BioMolecular Atlas Program, led by Luddy School Distinguished Professor Katy Börner, continues to deliver world-wide impact in research that could lead to breakthroughs in aging and disease. It was featured in a new “Resource” paper in the prestigious journal, Nature Methods.
Intelligent Systems Engineering Information and Library Science-Bloomington
Mar 26, 2025
Hub icon
Twitter
Facebook
Latest research on the Human Reference Atlas, a multi-scale, three-dimensional framework that describes the multi-scale structure of the human body.
Cutting-edge research on the Human Reference Atlas within the NIH-funded
Human BioMolecular Atlas Program
was featured in a new “Resource” paper in the prestigious journal,
Nature Methods.
The paper,
“Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP): 3D Human Reference Atlas construction and usage,”
detailed the newest version of the Human Reference Atlas and its multi-scale, three-dimensional Common Coordinate Framework, an effort led by
Katy Börner
, Victor H. Yngve Professor of Engineering and Information Science, and Distinguished Professor of Engineering and Information Science at the
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
.
Börner, principal investigator of the IU Mapping Component within HUBMAP and director of the
Cyberinfrastructure for Network Science Center (CNS)
, is the lead author of this multi-consortium effort. More than 270 authors contributed to the paper. Several are from the Luddy School, including
Andreas Bueckle
, CNS research lead and Intelligent Systems Engineering faculty, as well as
Bruce W. Herr II
, CNS technical director and ISE staff.
The atlas describes the multiscale structure of the human body, from organs and tissues to cells, genes and biomarkers. It characterizes changes that occur from aging, disease and more. It covers 4,449 unique anatomical structures, 1,195 cell types and 2,089 biomarkers.
Börner called the paper, and the new research behind it, a “major team effort.” She said it “takes a village of bold interdisciplinary innovators” to map the human body at single-cell resolution. She said it took more than 50 different algorithms, harmonized with thousands of datasets, “to arrive at a multiscale atlas that is more than the sum of parts.”
Bueckle said building the HRA offers interdisciplinary opportunities for all career stages. He said he enjoyed “harmonizing and visualizing datasets from the whole-body to subcellular structures within a 3D common coordinate framework and virtual reality.”
Experts from 26 consortia were recognized for contributing to the atlas construction. Support came from the
National Institutes of Health
, the
Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
, and the
Human Cell Atlas.
Nature Methods is a monthly, peer-reviewed scientific journal that covers new scientific techniques.
Media relations
Indiana University
Pete DiPrimio
Writer/Editor
P:
(812) 855-1341
E:
pdiprimi@iu.edu
Explore media resources
Filed under:
Bloomington
Intelligent Systems Engineering
Information and Library Science-Bloomington
View all tags
Plus sign
Previous article
Luddy School raises the bar as iConference 2025 host
Next article
Luddy’s Gray co-authors book on ethical design
More stories
Luddy School team thrives at Defend the Republic Drone Competition
Luddy
December 3
Luddy Indianapolis Sports Analytics students tackle NFL Big Data Bowl
Luddy
March 4