[Source URL]: https://news.iu.edu/hamiltonlugar/live/news/43276-halina-goldbergs-recent-book-wins-polish-institute?_gl=1*104eb51*_gcl_au*NDMxMzYzMDkxLjE3Mzk4NDUxMjE.*_ga*NTE2MDY5MDIxLjE3MzMxMTU1OTg.*_ga_61CH0D2DQW*MTczOTg0NDU3MS4xMS4xLjE3Mzk4NDUyMDIuNjAuMC4w

Home
Stories
Halina Goldberg’s recent book wins Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America award
Polish Jewish Culture Beyond the Capital: Centering the Periphery,
edited by
Halina
Goldberg
and Nancy
Sinkoff
(
2023, Rutgers University Press), won the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America’s Anna M.
Cienciala
Award for Best-Edited Multi-Authored Scholarly Volume.
Awards
Jan 6, 2025
Hub icon
Twitter
Facebook
Polish Jewish Culture Beyond the Capital: Centering the Periphery,
edited by
Halina Goldberg
and Nancy Sinkoff (2023, Rutgers University Press), won the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America’s Anna M. Cienciala Award for Best-Edited Multi-Authored Scholarly Volume.
The book has also been shortlisted by the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and East European Languages for Best Edited Multi-Author Scholarly Volume of 2024.
From the Rutgers University Press description:
“
Polish Jewish Culture beyond the Capital: Centering the Periphery
is a
path-breaking exploration of the diversity and vitality of urban Jewish identity and culture in Polish lands from the second half of the nineteenth century to the outbreak of the Second World War (1899–1939). In this multidisciplinary essay collection, a cohort of international scholars provides an integrated history of the arts and humanities in Poland by illuminating the complex roles Jews in urban centers other than Warsaw played in the creation of Polish and Polish Jewish culture.
Each essay presents readers with the extraordinary production and consumption of culture by Polish Jews in literature, film, cabaret, theater, the visual arts, architecture, and music. They show how this process was defined by a reciprocal cultural exchange that flourished between cities at the periphery—from Lwów and Wilno to Kraków and Łódź—and international centers like Warsaw, thereby illuminating the place of Polish Jews within urban European cultures.”
Dr. Halina Goldberg
Credit: Sarah J. Slover
Goldberg is director of the Hamilton Lugar School’s Robert F. Byrnes Russian and East European Institute and professor of musicology at the Indiana University (IU) Jacob’s School of Music. She is also affiliate faculty at IU’s Borns Jewish Studies Program, the
Polish Studies Center
, the
Institute for European Studies
, and the Department of Slavic and East European Languages and Cultures.
Goldberg’s interests focus on the interconnected Polish and Jewish cultures. Much of her work is interdisciplinary, engaging the areas of cultural studies, music and politics, performance practice, and reception, with special focus on nineteenth- and twentieth-century Poland and Eastern Europe, Chopin, and Jewish studies.
She is also the of author of
Music in Chopin’s Warsaw
(Oxford University Press, 2008; Polish translation, 2016) and editor of
The Age of Chopin: Interdisciplinary Inquiries
(Indiana University Press, 2004),
Chopin and His World
(Princeton University Press, 2017, with Jonathan Bellman),
Descriptive Piano Fantasias
(A-R Edition, 2021, with Jonathan Bellman), and a special issue of
The Musical Quarterly
, “Jewish Spirituality, Modernity, and Historicism in the Long Nineteenth Century: New Musical Perspectives.”
Goldberg has written articles on various aspects of Chopin’s music, national constructs in Glinka’s music, and the participation of nineteenth-century Jewish musicians in the articulation of Polish musical identity. She is a codesigner of “In Mrs. Goldberg’s Kitchen,” the multimedia exhibit at the Central Museum of Textiles in Łódź about the
Jewish quarter in pre-World War II Łódź
, which received a nomination in the category of Historical Exhibits for the 2012 Sybilla Award, Poland’s most prestigious museum award.
Her other honors include the 1998 Wilk Award for Research in Polish Music (Polish Music Reference Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles) and a 2005-06 Fulbright-Hays Faculty Research Abroad grant in Poland (“National Identity, Assimilation, and Jewishness in Nineteenth-Century Polish Music”), and the 2021 H. Colin Slim Award from the American Musicological Society for the article “Chopin’s Album Leaves and the Aesthetics of Musical Album Inscription” (Journal of the American Musicological Society).
Goldberg is presently working on several publications related to Chopin, music in nineteenth-century albums, women in music, and Jews and Jewishness in nineteenth-century Poland. She also serves as the project director for the Digital Scholarly Commons dedicated to the study of Jewish Life in Pre-World War II Łódź.
To learn more about the book, explore the companion website “
Soundscapes of Modernity: Jews and Music in Polish Cities
.”
Related
Hamilton Lugar School Faculty Books
Author
Linda Bollivar
Contact Info
Halina Goldberg
goldberg@iu.edu
Filed under:
Awards
Books
REEI
Institute for European Studies
Polish Studies Center
View all tags
Plus sign
Previous article
Professor Alwiya Omar honored with African Studies Association 2024 Outstanding Service Award
Next article
Exploring the world, serving at home: IU senior Kennedy Ebner ’25 pursues politics and global policy
More stories
Global
,
Law and Policy
Hamilton on Foreign Policy #264: Workforce is key to America’s role in the world
Hamilton Lugar
February 20
Global
Josh Marshall to lead Hamilton Lugar marketing & communications
Hamilton Lugar
April 14