[Source URL]: https://news.luddy.indiana.edu/story.html?story=IEEE-honors-Luddy’s-Lasassmeh-for-inspirational-contributions-

Home
News
IEEE honors Luddy’s Lasassmeh for inspirational contributions
Suha Lasassmeh cares about the Luddy School students she teaches, the women in science and technology she mentors. That helped earn the Intelligent Systems Engineering lecturer the Region 4 IEEE Women in Engineering Award.
Feb 14, 2025
Hub icon
Twitter
Facebook
Suha Lasassmeh’s
passion for encouraging young women in science and technology has earned the
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Intelligent Systems Engineering lecturer the 2024 Region 4
IEEE Women in Engineering Award
.
Lasassmeh was honored for her contributions in advancing Women in Engineering goals through impactful service, mentorship and advocacy. The award is given annually to recipients who have made outstanding contributions to IEEE Women in Engineering, their communities and the engineering profession.
“Dr. Lasassmeh received this distinguished award for her mentorship and advocacy work,” said
Beth Plale
, Intelligent Systems Engineering chair and Michael A and Laurie Burns McRobbie Bicentennial Professor of Computer Engineering. “This is so well deserved. We witness Suha’s unceasing efforts to inspire young people to become engineers in the classroom every day.”
Recognition came during the late January
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
Region 4 and Region 6 Joint Meeting in San Francisco. IEEE is the world’s largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.
Award officials called Lasassmeh a “dedicated advocate for women in engineering who passionately supports initiatives that empower women and girls in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) through her leadership roles, mentorship and community engagement.” They praised her commitment to prepare the next generation of women engineers through hands-on activities and interactive projects.
“It means so much to be recognized for something I truly love, which is encouraging and supporting young women in engineering,” Lasassmeh said. “Throughout my career, I’ve seen firsthand how important mentorship, hands-on experiences, and community can be in helping students build confidence and see themselves as future engineers.”
Award officials highlighted Lasassmeh’s contributions in university service, student support and community outreach. That included establishing the first engineering club at a Bloomington elementary school and attending the recent
Society of Women Engineers
conference in Chicago with students.
At IU, Lasassmeh works to foster a more supportive environment for women and minority groups in graduate studies as part of the
IU Bloomington 2030 Strategic Plan for Graduate Education.
In community service, she’s a coach for a Bloomington elementary school robotics club. She’s led activities during Engineers Day at the
Indianapolis Children’s Museum
that included designing interactive robotics and circuits projects. She also participated in the Museum’s third annual STEM Exploration Day where she designed experiments with robotics and sensors to inspire girls in engineering and STEM fields.
As an active member of the IEEE Women in Engineering Central Indiana Executive Committee, Lasassmeh helps organize events such as the March of 2024 panel titled, “Empowering Women in STEM - Overcoming Biases and Embracing Innovation,” where she shared strategies for navigating challenges such as imposter syndrome, building community support, and fostering professional connections, areas vital for women aspiring to advance in STEM.
“This award motivates me even more to keep creating opportunities for young girls to explore engineering in fun and meaningful ways,” Lasassmeh said. “Whether it’s through robotics and engineering clubs, outreach events, or simply being there as a mentor, I want to continue showing them that engineering is not just exciting, but also something they can absolutely thrive in. My goal is to keep expanding these efforts and to help as many young women as possible see that they belong in this field.”
Lasassmeh said IEEE members share common goals of better serving their communities, advancing teaching and mentorship and preparing students for the future of engineering. She praised the San Francisco meeting training sessions designed to navigate rapid AI advances and bridge the gap between engineering education and industry needs to ensure students are prepared for the challenges of an evolving workforce.
”
Author
Pete DiPrimio
Contact Info
Luddy Director of Marketing and Communications
luddymco@iu.edu
Explore media resources
Filed under:
Bloomington
Research
View all tags
Plus sign
Previous article
Luddy Ph.D. graduate earns international dissertation honor
Next article
Blockchain technology could empower patient-centric health care data management
More stories
Luddy professor showcases world-changing collaboration benefits between art, science, engineering
Luddy
December 12
Invaluable Connections – Serve IT displays impressive work
Luddy
December 19