[Source URL]: https://news.iu.edu/hamiltonlugar/live/news/43056-vesna-dimitrieska-named-best-of-the-best-in-higher-edu?_gl=1*104eb51*_gcl_au*NDMxMzYzMDkxLjE3Mzk4NDUxMjE.*_ga*NTE2MDY5MDIxLjE3MzMxMTU1OTg.*_ga_61CH0D2DQW*MTczOTg0NDU3MS4xMS4xLjE3Mzk4NDUyMDIuNjAuMC4w

Home
Stories
Vesna Dimitrieska named “Best of the Best in Higher Education”
The Indiana Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages honored Vesna Dimitrieska with the 2024 Best of the Best in Higher Education award in recognition of her many years of service to Indiana and her impact on the local and national landscape for dual language education.
Faculty News
Dec 12, 2024
Hub icon
Twitter
Facebook
Dr. Vesna Dimitrieska (center) with other award recipients on stage at the November 2024 Indiana Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages conference.
The Indiana Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages honored
Vesna Dimitrieska
with the 2024 Best of the Best in Higher Education award in recognition of her many years of service to Indiana and her impact on the local and national landscape for dual language education.
Dimitrieska is director of global education initiatives at Indiana University’s
Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies
and
School of Education
, She
has been a long-term advocate for language learning, particularly for English language learners who often do not have the opportunity to maintain and develop their native or heritage language.
“This award acknowledges my commitment to advocating and supporting language learners as they are developing both English and their first language,” said Dimitrieska. “I am an avid believer in multilingualism and I think being able to speak multiple languages is something that should be the norm and not the exception.”
Over the last 15 years, she has collaborated at the national, state, and local level to harness language policies for multilingualism, which led to the legislative adoption of the Dual Language Education Pilot program in 2015, funding dual language programs throughout the state.
Dimitrieska was an instrumental facilitator in the development of the Indiana Language Roadmap, bringing in stakeholders from schools, universities, community centers, and local advocacy groups to craft a plan that now has wide applications throughout Indiana schools and beyond. In addition, she is an active researcher in multilingual spaces and has published in the
Journal of Language, Identity, and Education
and the
Indiana Literacy Journal
.
In March of 2024, Dimitrieska received the
2024 Central States Paul Simon Award
for her work advancing world language education in Indiana. In December 2023, she won the
Leo Bernado Award for Innovation in K-12 Language Education
from the American Council of Teaching Foreign Languages. She received the National Network for Early Language Learning’s
2020 Award for Outstanding Support of Early Second Language Learning.
Her K-16 Global Education Initiatives Across Indiana Program received the 2020 Amercian Association of Colleges of Teacher Education’s
Best Practice Award in Support of Global and International Perspectives
.
Filed under:
Faculty News
View all tags
Plus sign
Previous article
Guest blog: Paige Stephens “incredibly hopeful” after COP29
Next article
Guest blog: Valerie Grau’s “transformative” COP 29 experience
More stories
Global
Professor Alwiya Omar honored with African Studies Association 2024 Outstanding Service Award
Hamilton Lugar
December 20
Arts and Humanities
,
Global
Marianne Kamp secures grant to help preserve personal histories of Central Asians in 1991
Hamilton Lugar
February 20