[Source URL]: https://news.luddy.indiana.edu/story.html?story=Luddy-Career-Fair-showcases-hiring-optimism

Home
News
Luddy Career Fair showcases hiring optimism
More than 500 Luddy School students explored job opportunities during Luddy’s recent Spring Career Fair at the IU Memorial Union Alumni Hall. Many of the 19 registered companies were actively hiring.
Feb 6, 2025
Hub icon
Twitter
Facebook
Job market uncertainty has no place at Galen Healthcare Solutions. It’s why company representatives were at last week’s
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering’s
Spring Career Fair at the Indiana University Memorial Union Alumni Hall.
Galen’s hiring push was good news for the 529 attending students.
“We’re growing a lot and we’re not capping our hiring numbers,” said Philip Anderson, Galen technical manager. “If we see qualified candidates, we’re moving forward.
“We’ve grown 50 percent over the last year and looking to grow 50 percent more in the next year. We’re not limiting ourselves with a hiring cap because we have the work to justify hiring.”
Galen was one of the career fair’s 19 registered companies. Many were actively hiring.
“We know that now, more than ever, it’s essential for students to proactively build relationships with employers,” said
Macy Harmon
, senior associate director of employer relations. “The Luddy Career Fair allows students to gain firsthand knowledge of industry expectations while giving employers access to emerging talent ready to make an impact. We are so appreciative of employers and students alike. We want to aid companies with opportunities to find the Luddy talent that helps them achieve their goals, and the Luddy Career Fair is the perfect chance to make that happen.”
Anderson said the healthcare industry is nearly recession proof, and Galen, which focuses on operational, implementational and support services, takes full advantage.
“There is a big push for healthcare organizations to drive down costs and risks,” Anderson said. “We reduce risk and cost for our clients. It will always be a sustainable industry.”
Luddy informatics graduates are perfect fits for Galen’s technical consultant and associate technical archival consultant positions, he added. Galen, with branches in Chicago, Boston and Vermont, has targeted Luddy students for the last five to six years.
“Our positions align well with the education received by Luddy students,” Anderson said. “They have an interesting blend of technology, customer facing and project management. It’s worked out great.”
The same is true for TRIMEDX, a biotechnical company based in Indianapolis that repairs medical devices and offers preventative maintenance and performance verification for hospitals.
Rob Keller, manager of the software development team, said TRIMEDX services ensure that devices used in hospitals work safely and efficiently.
“There are more and more technology elements in hospitals,” Keller said. “AI is really coming into play.”
That’s where Luddy informatics and computer science graduates come in.
“We’ve had great success coming to career fairs here,” Keller said. “Luddy students bring a wide variety of experience and exposure to programming languages such as Python, Java and JavaScript. It all aligns with our code stack.”
Crowe LLP, an audit, tax, consulting firm based out of Chicago with 37 branches across the country, also is making a big hiring push.
“We provide a lot of consulting services for organizations that might not be hiring themselves, but will hire consultants to help them through projects,” said Robert Moses, Crowe cyber security consulting manager.
Abbi Feeley, a senior acquisition recruiter at Crowe, said Luddy informatics graduates are well trained for the company’s roles in areas such as cyber security, business and technology solutions, and risk and compliance.
Wisconsin-based Uline, which offers shipping and packing supplies, also was actively hiring. Jonalyn Trimboli, a shipping supply specialist, said the 40-year-old company grew even during the pandemic and the resulting supply chain challenges.
“That showcases our stability and our willingness to bring in new talent,” she said. “We want to hire them and keep them.”
Trimboli said Luddy informatics and computer science graduates bring the technical skills the company needs.
“Uline does a great job of always striving for operational excellence,” she said. “Luddy students really come up to the plate for that.
“We want top talent that shows leadership and works. Luddy has a lot of the technical skills and programming we need. You can see the professionalism.”
”
Author
Pete DiPrimio
Contact Info
Luddy Director of Marketing and Communications
luddymco@iu.edu
Explore media resources
Filed under:
Bloomington
Research
View all tags
Plus sign
Previous article
HCI/d Connect delivers real-world look at potential futures
Next article
Visiting Fulbright scholar uses 3D computer vision to study Mexican cultural heritage
More stories
Luddy professor receives NIH grant to further understanding of Alzheimer’s progression
Luddy
December 4
Science and Technology
Cheng Wu Innovation Challenge Celebrates 10th Anniversary
Luddy
April 15