[Source URL]: https://nursing.indiana.edu/

Home
Bloomington
Bloomington
A tradition of impact and innovation
Since 1957, the Indiana University School of Nursing in Bloomington has been shaping the nursing profession through education and research. We take pride in our rich history, but we’re also looking to the future. IU School of Nursing Bloomington remains committed to preparing skilled nursing professionals and to engaging in research that advances nursing education and practice.
Find a program that’s right for you
Bachelor of Science in Nursing: Traditional Track
For those ready to pursue their first degree in nursing.
Bachelor of Science in Nursing: RN to BSN Track
An online track for Registered Nurses who want to earn a BSN.
Graduate programs available through IU School of Nursing in Indianapolis
Master of Science in Nursing
The MSN program is online and hybrid to provide flexibility as well as hands-on learning and face-to-face interactivity
PhD in Nursing Science
Prepare for a career in nursing education, research, health systems, or clinical science in our distance-accessible PhD program
Doctor of Nursing Practice
Advance your career as a leader in complex clinical practice settings when you enroll in the distance-accessible DNP program
Join the nursing faculty at IU Bloomington
We take pride in our faculty of nursing professionals who are visionary leaders, committed educators, and innovative researchers. We're looking for talented professionals to join the School of Nursing faculty on the Bloomington campus to help educate the next generation of nurses.
View faculty openings
Your donation supports nurses
Your gift makes it possible for us to educate future nurse leaders by offering our student nurses scholarships, state-of-the-art clinical facilities, and a world-class faculty. Your gift can also be used to support these and other critical endeavors.
$700k
In scholarships awarded to nursing students annually
100%
Job placement rate for graduates
Learn about undergraduate honors research
Learn how research is conducted with a faculty research mentor. You'll dive into a research project and gain new perspectives on how research changes practice.
Explore the honors program
Next generation nursing leaders
Dr. Opsahl’s research is closely tied to her scholarship on innovative teaching approaches for student, community, and patient learning with application to practice.
More about nurse-led research
Investing in future nurses
Dan Klausner and his daughters, School of Nursing alumnae Taylor and Marissa, established the Klausner Family Scholarship Fund to support IU nursing students who need financial assistance.
Consider ways to give
Stay informed on the latest around IU Bloomington
Increasing access to care through community health outreach
Connecting the dots: The role of interprofessional education
School of Nursing has a philosophy and strategy of collaboration
Increased collaboration helps broaden understanding of social work’s crucial role in health care
Simulation center gives health sciences students near-real-world experience
Relationship and sexual satisfaction are linked to better self-care for people with epilepsy
New study to test COVID-19 infection, transmission among vaccinated college students
New Health Sciences Building in Bloomington welcomes students
New app to help 2 rural Indiana counties track COVID-19 symptoms
Indiana University programs highly ranked in annual Academic Ranking of World Universities
See all news and events
Keep learning throughout your career
We offer conferences, webinars, and online courses through our Center for Professional Development and Lifelong Learning that can help you enhance your skills, connect with colleagues, and increase your confidence and marketability.
Find out more about continuing education
Take the next step in nursing
Apply to IU School of Nursing in Bloomington
More about campus life at IU Bloomington