[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/living-in-the-us/transportation/travel/index.html

Home
Living in the U.S.
Transportation
Travel Outside of Bloomington
Travel Outside of Bloomington
Exploring beyond Bloomington
If you want to explore cities outside of Bloomington while you are at IU, there are several transportation options available to you.
Air travel
The closest airport to Bloomington is the
Indianapolis International Airport
.
To book a flight from Indianapolis, you can use an online booking website (such as
Expedia
or
Kayak
), contact an airline directly, or use a travel agency.
Travel with IU
OIS organizes trips to nearby cities such as Chicago, Louisville, Cincinnati, and Indianapolis. See the
events calendar
for upcoming trips.
If you plan to travel outside the United States, it is important that you have your I-20 or DS-2019 signed for travel before you leave.
Car rental and carpooling
If you have a
U.S. driver’s license
, you may be able to rent a car to travel where you want to go.
Learn about renting a car
When you carpool, you ride with someone else who is also going to your destination—sometimes for a fee, and sometimes not. If you are interested in sharing a ride with other people at IU, consider the
Hoosier Rideboard
.
Buses, shuttles, and trains
You may be able to take a bus, shuttle, or train to your destination.
Buses
Greyhound buses
serve the state of Indiana and can take you to many cities in the U.S. and Canada.
Catch-A-Ride
provides student-only express bus service from IU to Chicago, northwest Indiana, and South Bend-area destinations for semester breaks and select holidays and weekends.
Shuttles
Two companies provide shuttle service between IU Bloomington and the Indianapolis International Airport.
Learn more about airport shuttle service
Trains
There is limited train service in Indiana, and it is provided by
Amtrak
. The nearest Amtrak station is in Indianapolis.
Housing
Health & Insurance
Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Civil Discourse & Free Speech
Transportation
International Driver's Permit
Indiana Driver's License
Leasing, Renting, or Sharing a Car
Buying a Car
Alternative Transportation
Travel Outside of Bloomington
Airport Shuttle
Taxes
Banking
Cell Phones