[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/student-employment/social-security/index.html

Home
Student Employment
Apply for a Social Security Number
Apply for a Social Security Number
How to apply for a Social Security number
For tax purposes, anyone receiving income must provide their employer with a Social Security number. If you want to get a Social Security number, you must apply in person at the local Social Security Administration office.
The U.S. Social Security program is designed as a pension fund and insurance fund for people who work and live in the United States. The Social Security number (SSN) has become an identification number routinely used by banks, phone companies, rental agencies, and other institutions. The
Social Security Administration
advises companies that they should not use the SSN in this way. Recent changes in Social Security regulations are making it more difficult to obtain a number if you do not have a job in the United States.
For more information and the necessary applications, please visit
Atlas
.
What documents do I need to apply for a Social Security number?
All international applicants
must show the following documents to complete an application:
Valid passport
I-20, DS-2019, or other document indicating nonimmigrant/immigrant status
One additional piece of identification—a student ID card, driver’s license, credit card, etc.
Additional materials
Select a category below for information about additional materials you may need to provide to apply for a Social Security number depending on your circumstances.
J-1 scholars
J scholars must show an original DS-2019 form in addition to the standard documents above. You do not need to submit additional materials. No DSO letter is required. No employer letter is required.
J-1 students sponsored by Indiana University
J-1 students sponsored by Indiana University need a letter from OIS. To request this letter, complete the “Social Security Letter Request” in Atlas.
J-1 students not sponsored by Indiana University
J-1 students with a sponsor other than “Indiana University” in item 2 of their DS-2019 must get a letter from their official sponsor. Many of these sponsors, such as IIE-Fulbright, provide these letters at their orientation. J-1 students must submit this letter and a valid DS-2019 in addition to the standard documents listed above.
J-1 student interns
J-1 student interns must show an original DS-2019 form in addition to the standard documents above. A letter from OIS stating eligibility for the social security number is needed at the time of application. Please email OIS to request this letter.
F-1 students with on-campus hourly jobs
All F-1 students need to submit the standard documents listed above. Also, F-1 students need proof of a job or a job offer. If you have a job at IU, the hiring department must have completed, or must intend to complete, a Hire e-doc in HRMS.
F-1 students can prove employment with either a pay advice or paycheck stub, or you can supply a letter from your employer. The letter should follow the format in this
sample employer letter
.
The employer letter must be printed on an original of the employer's colored letterhead and must have an original departmental signature. The employer's letter may not list more than one student at a time.
In addition, you need to provide a DSO letter. To obtain the DSO letter, you can fill out the Social Security Letter request in
Atlas
.
F-1 students with student academic appointments
All F-1 students need to submit the standard documents listed above in
Atlas
. F-1 graduate students who have graduate assistantships or associate instructorships must also submit the following:
A letter to the student from the IU department that outlines the stipulations of the work portion of the fellowship or assistantship
A DSO letter from OIS (for student academic appointees)
F-1 students on Curricular Practical Training
All F-1 students need to submit the standard documents listed above. No employer letter is necessary. However, the I-20 must be properly endorsed with DSO authorization for CPT on page 2.
F-1 students with an Employment Authorization Document
Under certain circumstances, F-1 students can obtain an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) that permits you to work off campus. In most cases, F-1 students with an EAD are on Optional Practical Training. F-1 students who have an EAD need to submit the standard documents listed above, and should show your EAD when you apply. No employer letter is necessary. No DSO letter is necessary.
Social Security numbers for dependents
J-2 dependents
If you are in J-2 status, you can obtain an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) from USCIS. Talk to OIS about how to do this. Once you have the EAD, you can take it, along with your passport, I-94 card, DS-2019, and another form of identification to the
local Social Security office
.
F-2 dependents
F-2 dependents may not work and therefore do not qualify for a Social Security number. The Social Security office will not accept their applications.
Timing issues
There are a few things to think about when you are deciding when to apply for a Social Security number.
Entry-based issues
Data from your I-94 card or approval notice is put into a federal database called SAVE, and downloaded periodically for other agencies to view. The process is not as fast as one would hope, especially during times when many people are traveling (the beginning of each semester, for example).
OIS strongly recommends that you wait a minimum of four weeks after entry into the United States (or Change of Status) before applying for a Social Security number
. Going in sooner may actually delay your application. If you are working with an employer who is anxious for you to provide a Social Security number, please refer the employer to this website or to the Social Security Administration.
Job-based issues
If you are applying for a Social Security number based on a job offer, you cannot apply earlier than 30 days before your employment start date.
Processing time
Once you have met all the criteria listed here, your application will usually take about two weeks to process. Your Social Security card will be mailed to you.
Where is the Bloomington Social Security Administration office?
The Bloomington branch of the Social Security Administration office is located at:
515 W. Patterson Drive
Bloomington, IN 47403
See up-to-date hours and contact information
Finding a Job
Visas & Work Authorization
Apply for a Social Security Number