[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/living-in-the-us/transportation/leasing/index.html

Home
Living in the U.S.
Transportation
Leasing, Renting, or Sharing a Car
Leasing, Renting, or Sharing a Car
When you need temporary access to a car
Buying a car might not make sense if you are only planning to be in the U.S. for a short time. If you would like a car but only for a limited period of time, you might want to lease or rent one.
Leasing a car in the United States
If you are going to need a car for several months or even a year or more but do not want to buy one, you may choose to lease a car from a new car dealership.
The car dealership will require you to provide copies of:
A letter from IU stating you are a full-time student or faculty/staff member
Your I-20 or DS-2019 indicating your anticipated length of stay at IU
Your valid
U.S. driver’s license
—or your foreign driver’s license showing your photo ID and your
International Driver’s Permit
(IDP)
You will also be required to buy full-coverage insurance on the car you intend to lease.
Renting a car
For short-term car rental, you have two options:
Renting a car from a car rental agency
Renting a car from IU’s Zipcar fleet (if you are a student or scholar at IU Bloomington)
Renting from a car rental agency
A car rental agency is a good option if you need a car for just a few days or weeks.
If you meet the following requirements, you will probably be able to rent a car:
You are 25 years or old.
You hold a valid U.S. driver’s license or a foreign driver’s license with an IDP.
You can rent a car from IU’s Zipcar fleet for short periods of time—as little as one hour.
The Zipcars are located in reserved spaces throughout campus. IU faculty, staff, and students who are at least 18 years old can rent the cars by becoming a member of the service (a Zipster) for a fee.
Once you are a member, you can make a reservation for a car online or by telephone and pay either a daily or an hourly rate. The cost includes gas, insurance, 180 miles of travel, and roadside assistance.
The cars are available for rent 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Get the details on Zipcar’s website
Sharing rides with other people
IU encourages sharing rides—it is environmentally friendly and alleviates parking congestion.
If you are interested in sharing a ride with other people at IU, consider the
Hoosier Rideboard
.
You can find all the details on IU’s Zimride program on the
Office of Parking Operations website
.
Housing
Health & Insurance
Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Civil Discourse & Free Speech
Transportation
International Driver's Permit
Indiana Driver's License
Leasing, Renting, or Sharing a Car
Buying a Car
Alternative Transportation
Travel Outside of Bloomington
Airport Shuttle
Taxes
Banking
Cell Phones