[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/living-in-the-us/housing/index.html

Home
Living in the U.S.
Housing
Housing
Find your new home
Whether you want to live on campus in a residence hall, or off campus in a house, apartment, or townhome, it is important to find housing before you arrive in the United States.
Your first housing decision should be whether you want to live on campus or off campus.
If you are a first-year undergraduate student at IU Bloomington, you are required to live on campus.
Purchasing renter's insurance
Renter’s insurance protects the value of the belongings you keep inside your rental property and purchasing a policy is
highly
encouraged for all students.
Learn more
Short-term stay options
Need a place to stay for a few days when you arrive in Bloomington? We have plenty of local hotels that are convenient to the campus.
Find a hotel
On-campus housing
IU Bloomington features more than 20 residence halls and student apartment buildings. All offer on-campus dining, high-speed wireless internet, laundry facilities, fully furnished rooms, and more. You can also request to live in a learning community.
On-campus housing allows you to be close to your classes. It provides a classic college experience and sense of community among students.
Scholars who visit IU for shorter periods of time often live on campus, as well.
Learn more about on-campus housing
See your options
Read the move-in guide
Apply for housing
Special on-campus housing options
IU Bloomington offers several special housing options. These include Living-Learning Centers (LLCs) and thematic communities.
There are Living Learning Centers for many schools and areas of study, including the
Jellison LLC
for Kelley students, the
Hamilton-Lugar School LLC
for globally-minded students, the
Civic Leaders LLC
, and the
Women in STEM LLC
, among others.
Learn more about special housing options
Off-campus housing
Living off campus gives you the flexibility to stay in your apartment or house during IU breaks, the ability to cook your own meals, and the possibility of splitting costs with roommates.
When you are looking for a place to live off campus, you might first want to start with an internet search. Many apartment complexes and rental companies have online reviews, so you can read about the experiences of previous tenants. Here is a list of additional resources you might want to look at.
IU Classifieds
Look for a rental or a roommate in IU Classifieds. You’ll need to have your IU network ID set up to log in to this website.
Visit IU Classifieds
Apartment search websites
Search for “apartments in Bloomington, Indiana” and you’ll find many of these comprehensive sites. Most of these sites offer a map view and list price and amenities, so you can find a mix of location, price, and features that will work for you.
Local newspapers
Check the classified ads in the local and student newspaper.
Bloomington Herald-Times
Indiana Daily Student
IU Real Estate
If you are currently a student or scholar at IU Bloomington, search IU Real Estate’s list of available properties. Although these properties are managed by IU, these are off-campus properties available to students, faculty, and staff.
Visit IU Real Estate
GPSG Housing Board
If you are a graduate student at IU Bloomington, search the Graduate and Professional Student Government’s (GPSG) housing board for vacancies.
Visit the GPSG Housing Board
Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty and Academic Affairs
If you are a graduate student at IU Bloomington, search the Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty and Academic Affairs’ listing of available rental housing.
Visit the Office of the Vice Provost
Tips to remember when looking for off-campus housing
When shopping for an off-campus home:
Shop around and compare prices.
Check the deposit policy to see if it is refundable.
Check the lease duration. If you are not going to be in Bloomington for 12 months, try to find a lease for shorter than 12 months. If you cannot find a shorter lease, plan to sublet (privately lease from another person) during the months that you will be in Bloomington.
Ask questions of former and current tenants if possible.
Get everything you agree upon in writing.
Read the entire lease before you sign it.
Follow all terms of the contract you sign.
Do not
sign a lease until you have inspected the apartment, house, or room in person.
Do not
sign a lease if you do not agree with all the terms. Try to negotiate until you can come to an agreement.
Thinking about getting a pet?
Make sure you are ready to take on the responsibilities of owning a pet before you adopt.
Learn more about pet adoption
What is renter’s insurance, and do I need to buy it?
Renter’s insurance protects the value of the belongings you keep inside your rental property in case of theft, fire, or other sources of damage. It is usually not required to sign a lease, but we recommend that you purchase it. Most major insurance providers in the United States offer renter’s insurance.
Housing
Health & Insurance
Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Civil Discourse & Free Speech
Transportation
Taxes
Banking
Cell Phones