[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/admissions/apply/transfer/index.html

Home
Admissions
Apply
Transfer Students
Transfer Students
Application process for international transfer students
IU Bloomington is a wonderful place to complete your degree as an international student. You are eligible to apply for transfer status at IU if you have already graduated from secondary school and are currently attending (or have attended) a college or university.
Have questions about being an IU student?
Talk with an International Student Ambassador to find out what it’s like to study at IU.
Apply now
Apply IU
Use the Apply IU Application to apply to IU Bloomington or other Indiana University campuses.
Start your Apply IU Application
Steps for applying as a transfer student
This page lists the important steps in the application process so you know exactly what you need to do to successfully apply to IU as a transfer student.
Review admission standards
Before you begin the application process, you should read our admission standards to make sure you qualify to apply. Admission for international transfer applicants is selective, so you must establish a solid academic record in university-level work before applying to IU.
We will review your application for its individual merits and qualities. In particular, we consider factors that emphasize academic performance and preparation, including:
Strength and quality of your curriculum
Successful attainment of recognized secondary school credential
Recent grade trends
Standardized test results (if applicable)
You should have a minimum college cumulative GPA of 2.5.
Because of the competitive nature of our applicant pools, few students (American and international) are admitted with a GPA below 2.5. Additionally, no GPA in itself will guarantee admission.
In addition, you should be in good standing at the institution you are attending or have previously attended.
Factors that influence the admission decision
As a prospective transfer student, you are given more serious consideration if your marks or grades have been consistently above average or steadily improving in a challenging academic program. Conversely, low marks or grades in the most recent term or a less demanding academic program are often factors that make an application less competitive and thus are reasons to deny admission.
IU may be able to make an admission decision while you are in the process of completing the current term at your institution. However, if your final performance falls below the admission standards for IU, International Admissions is very likely to withdraw the offer of admission.
Situations where you need to meet the freshman admission standards
If either of these situations apply to you, you need to meet freshman admission standards as well as maintain satisfactory academic progress in your postsecondary studies:
You have less than one year of full-time university-level study (fewer than the U.S. equivalent of 26 semester hours or 39 quarter hours) earned from your current institution
You are participating in a dual-enrollment program (where you earn enough credit to obtain an associates degree while in high school)
See freshman admission standards
Demonstration of English proficiency
IU Bloomington requires all international undergraduate applicants to demonstrate English proficiency. You need to have met this English proficiency requirement within the last two years.
You can do this by:
Submitting acceptable results for one of the English proficiency tests or the SAT or ACT exam listed in
English proficiency tests
Submitting acceptable results from certain classes listed in
Curricula scores
Holding citizenship from or completing at least three full years of secondary school in a predominantly English-speaking country, defined in
List of English-speaking countries
Having certain transferrable credits, defined in
Transferable credit completion
Successfully completing Level 7 of the Intensive English Program (IEP) at IU Bloomington
English proficiency tests
Test
Score
TOEFL (internet-based test)
79
TOEFL (paper-based test)
550
TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition
79
TOEFL ITP+ China
543
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
6.5
IELTS Indicator
6.5
Duolingo English Test (DET)
115
Cambridge English
176
Pearson PTE
53
Michigan Tests MET
53
SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing
560
ACT English section
21
Curricula scores
Curriculum
Score
IB HL English A: Language and Literature
4 or higher
IB HL English A: Literature
4 or higher
GCE A-Level: English First-language
A, B, C
AP English and Composition
3 or higher
AP Literature and Composition
3 or higher
List of English-speaking countries
Anguilla
Antigua
Australia
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
British Virgin Islands
Canada
Dominica
Federated States of Micronesia
Fiji
Gambia
Ghana
Grand Cayman Islands
Grenada
Guyana
Hong Kong
Jamaica
Kenya
Liberia
Montserrat
New Zealand
Nigeria
Philippines
Republic of Ireland
Singapore
St. Kitts & Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Tanzania
Trinidad and Tobago
Turks & Caicos Islands
United Kingdom (England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales)
United States
Zimbabwe
Transferable credit completion
You can demonstrate English proficiency by submitting evidence from an accredited two- or four-year postsecondary institution in the United States of having completed (credits cannot be through online programs):
More than 26 transferable credits (39 quarter credits) at the time of application, AND
The full freshman English requirements with a C or better
To fulfill the freshman English requirement, your credits must transfer as being equivalent to the following IU courses: ENG W 131, ENG W 170, or CMLT C 110. Six credits of humanities or other English courses will also meet these standards. We recommend that you use our
Credit Transfer Service
to find out what courses at your university may meet this requirement.
Review deadlines
You will get first and maximum consideration if you complete your application materials by the priority date for the semester in which you wish to begin at IU.
If you submit your application materials after these dates, your application will only be considered if space is still available.
Semester
Date
Fall
June 1
Spring (January start)
November 1
Summer
March 1
Because of requirements for full-time enrollment, international applicants interested in summer admission are eligible to apply only for the second eight weeks of the
summer term
and are required to take a minimum of 6 credits during this term.
Explore our majors
Before you apply, make sure you spend some time exploring our different schools and
200+ majors
.
When you fill out your application, you’ll be asked to choose an intended major. If you know what you’d like to major in, select that major.
If you don’t know what you want to major in, that’s OK. IU students who have not yet chosen a major are considered
exploratory students
. It’s fine to spend time discovering the path that’s right for you. Indiana University promotes academic exploration above all else. It’s why most freshmen begin their studies in
University Division (UD)
, where they fulfill the general requirements needed to certify into a degree-granting school or college.
Learn how transferring your credits will work
If you are admitted to IU, we will evaluate your transcript(s) to determine if your course work from another institution translates into credit at IU Bloomington. You will receive an email with information on how to check your online transfer credit report via
One.IU
.
What is a transfer credit?
A transfer credit is a course credit from your current university that transfers as IU credit when you begin studying here.
IU’s Credit Transfer Service
If you would like to get an idea of how your credits might transfer before you apply, you can use our
Credit Transfer Service
. This automated service enables you to identify your university, the classes you have taken, and their IU equivalents in just a few steps.
However, not all courses at all universities are included in the Credit Transfer Service database, so you should not assume that the results you get using this tool are final.
You must request academic department evaluation for any international coursework earned that has not been articulated. Submit the Request for Review of Undistributed Credit E-Form in Atlas or contact the academic department directly for any courses that are not listed for your university on the Credit Transfer Service and for courses listed as Undistributed.
What to keep in mind when you want to transfer credit
Only coursework earned at a post-secondary institution recognized by either the national Ministry of Education or accredited by one of the six U.S. regional accrediting bodies will transfer.
Only courses in which you received a C or higher will transfer.
Transfer credit may count toward your degree at IU, but it will not count toward your GPA at IU.
Individual schools and departments at IU determine how transferred credits will apply toward your degree requirements.
Courses for which IU does not have an equivalent offering can sometimes be transferred as undistributed credits. Your academic advisor will be able to assist you with how undistributed credits may count toward your degree.
In general, no credit is awarded for English language or writing courses completed in non-Anglophone countries.
Submit the online application
Apply using the
Apply IU
application. The $65 application fee is non-refundable.
Set your browser to allow pop-ups and third-party cookies to ensure that your application and fee payment will be submitted correctly.
Receive your Atlas login information
After you submit your online application, you will receive immediate email confirmation that it was received.
OIS will email you your
Atlas
login information within five days of receiving your completed application. You will then need to log in to Atlas so you can upload the additional documents you are required to submit. Look for the
Transfer Application Checklist
under the
Requests
section.
Submit your supporting documents
Completing the application for admission is the first step toward attending Indiana University.
After you have submitted your application, there are some supporting materials that you need to provide. (All documents submitted for admission consideration become the property of IU.)
Secondary school academic records
Proof of secondary school completion is required for all transfer students.
Please ask your secondary school to send your official academic record directly to IU. If the original is not in English, also include a literal translation certified by the academic institution as being complete and correct. In all cases, the record must be an official copy bearing an original stamp or seal.
Learn more about country-specific requirements
Official transcript(s) from each college or university you have attended
U.S. and Canadian transcripts should be sent directly from the registrar of your school to our office. If you are studying in another country, please submit official copies of your academic record. If the original is not in English, also include a certified, literal translation. In all cases, the record must be an official copy bearing an original stamp or seal.
Request for review of undistributed credit
Be sure to access the
Credit Transfer Service
to find out what courses will transfer from your current university.
If you are an admitted student, and your credit is currently showing as undistributed in your student record, you should fill out the Request for Review of Undistributed Credit form in Atlas. Please submit any English language course syllabi along with your application materials.
Demonstration of English proficiency
You will need to submit evidence that you meet our English proficiency standards described in admission standards. How you demonstrate your proficiency will determine what you need to submit. For example, if you use scores from a test, you will need to submit those. Your documentation needs to be from within the last two years in order to be valid.
SAT/ACT scores
SAT/ACT scores are not required for transfer students. However, you may submit test scores if you would like to have them considered as a part of your admissions review.
Submit financial documentation
As an international student at IU Bloomington, you are required to submit documents proving you have the financial means to support yourself for a full calendar year, including tuition, fees, and living expenses.
We encourage you to submit your financial documents as soon as possible.
Learn more about required financial documentation
Receive your admission letter from OIS
You will first be notified of your admission decision via email by the Office of International Services (OIS).
If you are admitted, you can also choose to have your admission letter sent to you via mail after you have submitted your intent to enroll form and the
required financial documents
.
Let us know you plan to enroll
If you are admitted to IU Bloomington, you’ll need to let us know you plan to attend.
Learn more about the steps to enroll at IU Bloomington
How to make changes to your application
If you need to change information that you submitted with your application, you'll need to submit a form. The form is only for changing things like email address, contact information, name, etc. Continue using
Atlas
to submit any new information.
Change information on your application
How to cancel your application
If you would like to cancel your application after you have already applied, you can do that on the Intent to Enroll page.
Cancel your application
About IU Bloomington
Visit Us
Apply
Freshman Students
Transfer Students
Graduate Students
Cost & Financial Aid
Prepare for Your First Year