[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/student-employment/finding-a-job/bridge.html

Home
Student Employment
Finding a Job
Immigration Bridge
Immigration Bridge
Get help navigating the international hiring process
If you have a solid job opportunity in the United States, but your prospective employer is hesitant about the H-1B visa process, the IU Immigration Bridge® program can help you get an offer—even with companies that don’t typically sponsor students with U.S. work authorization needs.
IU Immigration Bridge is a proactive partnership between your career center, OIS, and a top immigration law firm—
Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy LLP
—to assist students with H-1B visa needs by streamlining the visa process for potential employers.
While the IU Immigration Bridge program does not guarantee a visa sponsorship, an H-1B visa, or employment, it does improve the likelihood of recruitment both on and off campus for students with U.S. work authorization needs.
When to start the program
Begin the Immigration Bridge program when a job offer from a recruiting company is imminent.
It’s important to plan ahead. The visa process can take several months, with no guarantee of securing an H-1B visa. Employers will cover the full cost of the H-1B visa process.
How it works
If you are a student and need U.S. work authorization during the offer phase with an employer, you should start the Immigration Bridge program application. Here is how the process works:
Inform recruiting companies about the program before filling out the e-form to gauge their interest in participating.
Once you have discussed the program with recruiters, fill out a brief e-form on
Atlas
. (This authorizes Fragomen to initiate legal consultation with your prospective employer.)
After you fill out the e-form, we will contact the recruiting company for permission to have Fragomen begin the discovery process with the company.
Fragomen will contact you and your recruiting company with a questionnaire.
About Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernson & Loewy LLP
Fragomen
is the leading provider of end-to-end corporate immigration services and solutions worldwide. The firm has been practicing global immigration and nationality law exclusively since 1951. Fragomen has a team of legal professionals based out of their Chicago office dedicated to handling immigration matters for firms recruiting IU students.
Finding a Job
Visas & Work Authorization
Apply for a Social Security Number