[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/living-in-the-us/safety/index.html

Home
Living in the U.S.
Safety
Safety
Staying safe on campus
Indiana University is committed to the safety and well-being of all members of the IU community. The campus and city work hard to protect you and make Bloomington a safe place to live. We also encourage you to protect yourself and others whenever possible. However, if you’re the victim of a crime or a
scam
,
it’s not your fault
—no matter how safe or unsafe you are.
IU has a dedicated and helpful
police department (IUPD)
. IUPD is a support resource you can use when you have questions related to personal safety.
IU wants to provide a safe and positive environment for everyone. If you think you’re being discriminated against for any reason, you should
report the incident
.
Description of the video:
Your personal safety is an important
priority for Indiana University.
We strive to create a safe
environment, but the most important element i
n keeping you safe... is you.
In this video, we’ll give you
information on how to stay safe in many different situations.
IU has its own police
department,
called IUPD
, and they are here
to protect and serve everyone on
campus
. You
will see police officers performing
many different du
ties,
and you should never be afraid to
seek help from them or other school authorities
– especially if someone or something makes you feel
uncomfortable
. The city of Bloomington also has a police department, which works closely with IUPD to
make Bloomingt
on a safe place to live
.
Sometimes
, even under the best of circumstanc
es, the unthinkable can happen.
While attending Indiana
University, international student Yaolin Wang was attacked and killed by a stalker that she knew.
[Wang interview]
Personal relat
ionships differ from country to country. In the United States, mutual respect is highly
valued.
If you are ever mistreated in any way, you should seek help.
Several resources are listed on the
OIS web site.
After
dark,
we recommend
that you try to find som
eone to walk with
. If you aren’t
able to
you can use a
free
IU
safety escort service.
Always b
e aware of your surroundings, and make sure you stay alert.
Use care at
your
home as well.
Lock all your doors and windows when you aren’t home.
Leave a light on
if you are going to be away from home after dark.
Get to know your neighbors, and be cautious about
opening your door to strangers
. Remember that the police
are helpful and supportive.
They
can be
reached in an emergency by dialing 911.
Occasionally,
Bloomington expe
riences
severe
weather.
There are many systems in place to alert you –
over the radio, TV,
and
IU Notify
– and they will give you instructions help you be
safe.
The city of
Bloomington uses a siren
when severe weather has been confirmed.
IU Notify will provide you with instructions for the weather or other emergencies.
Remain calm when
you see these notices, and follow directions
, even if there’s little chance of it impacting you directly.
Pay
attention, but don’t panic.
Overall, Bloomi
ngton is a small town and you will feel welcome and safe –
just be aware, be careful, and
ask for help if you need it.
If you ever feel that you are in danger, you should immediately call 9-1-1 for assistance.
Staying safe and avoiding scams
Download the Guardian app
The Guardian safety app gives you access to personal safety resources and can help you more easily reach police. Get emergency alerts, use a safe walk timer, and more.
Learn more about Guardian
Don’t fall for a scam
Scammers often target international students and scholars, often pretending to be government or immigration officials. Keep your personal information and money safe by knowing what to expect.
Learn more about avoiding scams
Staying safe in personal relationships
Personal relationships differ from country to country. In the United States, we highly value mutual respect. You don’t have to tolerate any violence, including
sexual violence
, or intimidation even if you’re in a relationship with the person.
If you’ve been the victim of an event the university and local law enforcement can help you. We strongly encourage you to
seek help
.
The Yaolin Wang Endowment
Yaolin Wang was an IU student whose life ended early because of senseless violence. Her family created an endowment in the hope that her story will help prevent similar tragedies from happening.
Read about the endowment
Anything you report is kept private
If you report a problem or issue to the university, IU won’t tell your family or community. The
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
, a U.S. government law about your privacy, means that in general, we are not allowed to share any information with your family unless either of the following is true:
You give specific permission for us to do so
There is a serious threat to health or safety
Emergency notifications
IU has a system called
IU Notify
to spread emergency notifications. It sends out warning messages if there is an event on or around the Bloomington campus, like severe weather, fires, violent crimes, and dangerous situations.
Your IU email address is automatically enrolled in IU Notify when you come to campus. You can also add your phone number (for text or call notifications) or other email addresses. You can even add your family members so they receive these notifications as well.
What to do in adverse weather
Sometimes, Bloomington experiences bad weather. It’s important to know what to do before an incident happens.
Severe thunderstorms and tornadoes can occur in Indiana. Although they can happen any time in the year, they are more likely in the spring and summer. The
National Weather Service (NWS)
provides warnings when severe weather is occurring.
Tornado watch
A tornado
watch
means weather conditions are favorable for a tornado, and this is a time to be aware and prepared to act.
Tornado warning
A tornado
warning
means you need to seek shelter immediately by moving to an interior room on the lowest floor with no windows (basements and bathrooms are often your best option).
Winter weather
In the winter, we experience cold temperatures and snowstorms. Usually there is plenty of notice of these events so you have time to prepare (making sure you have enough food and supplies for a couple of days).
Other emergencies
There are other emergency situations that could happen anytime, anywhere. Knowing what to do in a situation could make all the difference.
Learn about other emergency situations
Walking and biking safety
Most students walk or bike around campus. Make sure that you’re aware of the rules and regulations that govern walking or biking. For example, a pedestrian (a person who is walking) has the right-of-way only when they are already in the street. Vehicles do not have to slow down or stop for pedestrians waiting to cross the street.
Watch the videos on this page for more tips about staying safe while walking or biking on campus.
Having trouble viewing this video about pedestrian safety?
Description of the video:
[MUSIC: Upbeat whistling]
Video: The IU trident appears along with the words Stay safe, Hoosiers.
Video: Words appear: Pedestrian Safety at IU.
Video: An exclamation mark appears along with the words Always pay attention to your surroundings.
Video: An icon of a person looking at their phone appears along with the words Don’t get distracted!
Video: An icon of a mobile phone appears along with the words Look up from your phone….
Video: An icon of headphones and music notes appears along with the words And make sure you can hear what’s going on around you.
Video: Words appear: Because your safety is our priority.
Video: A person crosses a street at a crosswalk. Words appear: Use sidewalks and crosswalks.
Video: Words appear: Look left, right, and left again for traffic before crossing.
Video: A pedestrian signal with the “walk” indicator lighted. Words appear: Use pedestrian push buttons and obey the signals.
Video: A person drives a car. Words appear: Make eye contact with drivers and never assume that they see you.
Video: A crosswalk. Words appear: Remember, you only have the right-of-way when you’re already in the crosswalk.
Video: A street sign shaded by bright autumn leaves. Words appear: Recognize risks, know your options, and always look out for your own safety.
Video: Words appear: Brought to you by Yaolin Wang Endowment.
Video: The IU trident appears along with the words Office of International Services.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]
Having trouble viewing this video about bike safety?
Description of the video:
[MUSIC: Jazzy piano music]
Video: The IU trident appears along with the words Stay safe, Hoosiers.
Video: Words appear: Bike Safety at IU.
Video: A person rides their bike through the Sample Gates. Words appear: In the US, bikes are considered vehicles and have the same rights and responsibilities as motorists.
Video: A winding two-lane road. Words appear: Go With the Flow of Traffic.
Video: Words appear: Ride on the right side of the road—in the same direction as other vehicles.
Video: A stop sign. Words appear: Obey All Traffic Laws.
Video: Words appear: That means all traffic signs, signals, and lane markings.
Video: Words appear: You wouldn’t run a stop sign in a car, so don’t do it on a bike!
Video: A sign depicting walking legs. Words appear: Yield to Pedestrians.
Video: A person riding a bike. Words appear: Be Predictable.
Video: Words appear: Ride in a straight line. Signal your intentions to other road users.
Video: A pile of tangled bikes and riders at a Little 500 race. Words appear: Stay Alert at All Times.
Video: Words appear: Avoid using a phone or music device while riding. Rely on your senses and minimize distractions.
Video: Pavement covered in wet leaves and puddles. Words appear: Be aware of potholes, cracks, wet leaves, storm grates, railroad tracks, pedestrians, and traffic.
Video: A person rides a bike at night. Words appear: Signal Your Presence.
Video: Words appear: Indiana law requires bikes to be equipped with bells—as well as rear and front lights at night.
Video: A bike lane on a road. Words appear: Bike lanes are clearly defined bike-only areas.
Video: Words appear: They’re there for you, so use them!
Video: Words appear: Brought to you by Yaolin Wang Endowment.
Video: The IU trident appears along with the words Office of International Services.
[END OF TRANSCRIPT]
Housing
Health & Insurance
Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Civil Discourse & Free Speech
Transportation
Taxes
Banking
Cell Phones