[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/admissions/cost-finances/index.html

Home
Admissions
Cost & Financial Aid
Cost & Financial Aid
Understanding the cost of your education and how to finance it
If you are planning to attend school in the United States, it is crucial that you fully understand how much it will cost and how you will pay for it.
The Office of International Services (OIS) can help you determine your tuition and estimated expenses and navigate all of your financial aid options—including scholarships, loans, and non-IU sources of funding.
Managing your IU expenses
IU puts all of your bills in one place—Student Central. You can make payments and manage your account online.
Learn how to pay your bill
See required documentation
As an IU student, you’re required to submit documentation proving that you can pay for your tuition, fees, and living expenses for a full calendar year.
Learn about tuition and fees
Your tuition and fees will vary depending on your program and other factors. We’ve created an estimate of expenses to help you plan.
Explore financial aid resources
There are many financial aid options available to you, including scholarships, loans, sponsored funding, and external funding.
What if I can’t support myself?
Public charge
has been a part of immigration law for over 100 years. A public charge is an individual who depends primarily on the U.S. government for financial support and livelihood. Becoming a public charge or being likely to become a public charge may prevent you from entering the United States or adjusting your status to permanent residency (green card).
If you have questions or need additional information about what qualifies an individual as a public charge and what the immigration implications would be for your specific circumstance, please call us at 812-855-9086 and schedule an appointment with an international student advisor.
Want more information on making smart financial decisions?
Visit MoneySmarts
About IU Bloomington
Visit Us
Apply
Cost & Financial Aid
Financial Documentation
Tuition & Fees
Financial Aid
Sponsored Funding
Prepare for Your First Year