[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/admissions/cost-financial-aid/documentation/index.html

Home
Admissions
Cost & Financial Aid
Financial Documentation
Financial Documentation
Required financial documents
Once you are accepted at Indiana University, you will be required to submit documents to
Atlas
proving you have the financial means to support yourself for a full calendar year, including tuition, fees, and living expenses.
Your financial documents are not related to your admission decision. However, OIS cannot issue you an immigration document until you have provided sufficient evidence of financial support. We encourage you to submit your financial documents as soon as possible. We will be able to finalize your application and process your necessary immigration documents sooner.
Although proof of funding is required for only the first year, you are expected to fund your studies for the duration of your program. When adding up your expenses, remember that you should not look to employment as a means of support. Not only do you need authorization before you can start a job, but you are also limited in the number of hours you can work.
You will need to submit:
Information about your source(s) of funding
Details about personal or family funding
Details about financial support from a sponsoring agency, government, or non-IU scholarship
OIS cannot issue you a visa document until you have provided sufficient evidence of financial support.
How can I estimate my expenses?
We have generated an estimate of typical expenses that you can use for planning. If you are applying for a campus other than IU Bloomington, review that campus's website for estimated expenses.
See an estimate of expenses
Information about your source(s) of funding
When gathering your financial documentation, please keep the following items in mind:
You should include bank statements if at all possible.
You must submit only legible financial documentation.
You may be asked to submit original documents at Indiana University’s discretion.
You must provide the specific amount and currency of available funds, though funds on bank statements, etc., do not need to be shown in U.S. dollars.
You must submit documentation from the 12 months preceding the time you intend to enroll.
If the available sponsored funds do not completely cover your incurred costs, you will be responsible for all additional expenses associated with your stay in the United States.
Acceptable evidence of financial support
All documentation must indicate currency and amount in liquid asset form.
Personal bank statements
Cash deposits, certificates of deposit, savings accounts
Investment statements
Include clear evidence of the funds
’
liquidity and the cash surrender value
Business bank statements
Must be accompanied by a letter on company or bank letterhead stating the financial guarantor has signatory authority on the referenced account
Scholarship letters
Lines of credit
Government funding
Unacceptable financial documents
Chartered accountant statements
Payroll reports/expected income
Tax statements
Property assessments
Statements regarding property, jewelry, cars, and other non-liquid assets
Bank statements lacking currency amounts
Insurance policies
Other statements of non-liquid assets
Business named bank account without signatory verification
Details about personal or family funding
If full or partial funding is coming from personal sources (for example, family or friends), each person who will provide your financial support must:
Sign the Declaration of Financial Support form.
Attach an official bank statement(s). The name on the declaration must match the account holder on the bank statement(s).
Bank statements must be in English. Each bank statement submitted must include the following details:
The name of your financial supporter. The translated name must be on the original document (not handwritten in).
The date. Documents must be dated no more than one year (12 months) prior to the date classes begin for the desired term of enrollment.
The amount of available funds and the type of currency.
The name of the bank. The name of the bank must be officially indicated on the bank statement.
Details about educational loans
Educational loans are acceptable for submission as proof of financial support and will be used to finalize admission. Sanctioned loan letters must clearly indicate the loan as “approved” or “sanctioned” before we will create your immigration document. The letter must be in English and on official bank or institution letterhead.
We are also unable to accept in-principle sanction letters to create an immigration document. In-principle does not officially affirm that the loan has been finalized. The letter must be in English and on official bank or institution letterhead.
Details about financial support from a sponsoring agency, government, or non-IU scholarship
If you will be receiving support from a scholarship agency, you must attach an official scholarship letter which explains the terms and the amounts of the award. Companies should provide a statement indicating that they have the amount currently available.
Proof of funds usually includes bank statements and/or scholarship letters. Organizations and/or companies providing scholarships or paid study leave for you should provide an award letter outlining the details of the award in U.S. dollar amounts. The letter must contain:
The name of the student being given the award
The amount of money available for each year of study including the terms of support (i.e., a breakdown of what the award is intended to cover: tuition, fees, living expenses, dependents, etc.)
The duration of the award (including beginning and ending dates)
The degree and major field of study for which the award is available
Confirmation that the award is applicable for study at Indiana University
All documentation should be dated less than 12 months before the time you intend to enroll.
Learn more about paying for college
Learn about tuition and fees
Explore financial aid options
About IU Bloomington
Visit Us
Apply
Cost & Financial Aid
Financial Documentation
Tuition & Fees
Financial Aid
Sponsored Funding
Prepare for Your First Year