[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/living-in-the-us/banking/index.html

Home
Living in the U.S.
Banking
Banking
Banking in the United States
Once you have arrived in the United States, you will need to open a bank account. Banks in the U.S. offer many kinds of financial services, including:
Checking and savings accounts
Foreign currency conversions
Bank drafts
Money orders
Credit cards
Loans
Interbank transfer
Traveler’s checks
Safe-deposit boxes for storing valuable items
Investment services
Understanding banking terms
There are many words and phrases unique to the banking industry. If you do not understand a word, you can look it up.
See a list of banking terms
Where can I get a bank account?
Several banks and credit unions are located on or near the IU campus. The Greater Bloomington Chamber of Commerce has a list of local banks.
See a list of banks in Bloomington
Opening a bank account is like entering a contract. Be sure to read everything and ask questions if anything is not clear to you.
There are requirements you will need to fulfill before you can open an account.
What to bring with you
When you go to the bank to open an account, bring the following items:
Your unexpired passport
Your I-20, DS-2019, or I-797 approval notice
Any secondary form of identification you have, such as your student ID or a credit card
Customer identification programs
U.S. financial institutions are required to verify the identity of every person who opens a bank account in order to prevent fraud like money laundering.
Banks must obtain the following information from you before allowing you to open an account:
Your name
Your date of birth
Your street address (cannot use a P.O. Box)
An identification number, such as:
Social Security number (SSN)
Passport number and country of issuance
Alien identification card number
Number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document proving nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard
Each bank has its own customer identification program and may ask for documentation in addition to what we have listed.
If I applied for a SSN, do I need to wait until I receive it to open a bank account?
If you have already applied for a
Social Security number
before you try to open a bank account, you should take a copy of the receipt notice with you. It can serve as additional documentation to help establish your identity. As soon as you receive your SSN, inform your bank.
How do I get cash out of my account?
When you need cash from your bank account, you have two options—visit the bank during operating hours, or use an automatic teller machine (ATM). Your financial institution can tell you if there is a charge for using ATMs.
Housing
Health & Insurance
Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Civil Discourse & Free Speech
Transportation
Taxes
Banking
Cell Phones