[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/living-in-the-us/transportation/alternative-transport/index.html

Home
Living in the U.S.
Transportation
Alternative Transportation
Alternative Transportation
Alternative transportation options in Bloomington
If you would prefer to get around Bloomington without a car, there are a variety of options—riding a bike, walking, or taking a campus or city bus.
Riding a bike
Bloomington is a bicycle-friendly city, and many students find that biking is the easiest and cheapest way to get around.
Buying a bike
Because cycling is so popular in Bloomington, the city has several bicycle stores. Many discount department stores also sell bicycles.
A free option is the
Bloomington Community Bike Project
, which will provide parts and help you build your own bike at no cost.
You may also be able to find a used bike for sale. Look for signs in residence halls, and check the classified ads in the
Indiana Daily Student
and the
Bloomington
Herald-Times
newspapers.
Additionally, Parking Operations holds an auction twice a year to sell confiscated and abandoned bikes. The dates of the auctions are promoted on campus.
Learn more about biking in Bloomington
Bike parking and rules
If you want to park your bike on campus, you need to register your bike and obtain a parking permit for it.
If you live in a residence hall, you can get a parking permit at your residence hall center desk. If not, visit the Office of Parking Operations in the Henderson garage at 310 S. Fess Avenue.
The Transportation Demand Management website contains detailed information about bike permits and parking, as well as rules that cyclists should follow.
Visit the Transportation Demand Management website
You may park your bike only in designated areas. If you park your bike improperly, it may be ticketed or impounded.
Bus service in Bloomington
Bus transportation is an affordable and environmentally friendly way to get around. If you live near a bus route, it can be a convenient option.
There are two bus services connecting IU and Bloomington—most off-campus housing is located on one of the two bus lines.
Campus Bus Service
operates buses on campus, and anyone—even visitors—can ride for free.
Bloomington Transit
is the city of Bloomington’s bus service. It provides transportation around town and to the IU campus. IU students can ride for free with a valid IU student ID, and IU employees can ride for free with an IU bus pass.
Get all the details
The Transportation Demand Management office provides detailed information about bus service in Bloomington.
Learn about buses in Bloomington
Housing
Health & Insurance
Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Civil Discourse & Free Speech
Transportation
International Driver's Permit
Indiana Driver's License
Leasing, Renting, or Sharing a Car
Buying a Car
Alternative Transportation
Travel Outside of Bloomington
Airport Shuttle
Taxes
Banking
Cell Phones