[Source URL]: https://ois.iu.edu/student-employment/work-authorization/j-2-work/index.html

Home
Student Employment
Visas & Work Authorization
J-2 Work Authorization
J-2 Work Authorization
Applying for J-2 work authorization
If you have J-2 immigration status, you can apply directly to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for work authorization. If you obtain work authorization, you will receive a card, known as the Employment Authorization Document (EAD). The work authorization will be valid for 12 months or until the expiration of your J-1’s DS-2019—whichever is sooner.
Do not begin work until you receive authorization
.
Report J-2 information
Department of State regulations require you to notify the Office of International Services regarding your dependent(s) in the following two cases:
If your J-2 dependent(s) get a new email address:
Log in to Atlas and complete the Report J-2 Email Address Change e-form within 10 days of any email address update or new email address.
If your J-2 dependent(s) will depart the United States before you (the J-1) will depart the United States:
Email us at
ois@iu.edu
.
How to apply for work authorization
You should apply for employment authorization by mail. When applying, you will need to include the following items:
A U.S. check or money order payable to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for the current filing fee which can be found on the
USCIS I-765 homepage
A completed
Form I-765
(Application for Employment Authorization). The I-765 form can be downloaded from
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
(USCIS). For question #16 use code (c)(5) for J-2 work authorization.
Two passport-style photos with your name and date of birth printed in pencil on the back
Photocopy of the J-1’s and J-2’s DS-2019s
Photocopy of the name page and photo page of your passport
Personal statement. The statement must be signed and dated and must state:
The reason you want to work
That the J-1 has adequate funds to cover his/her studies and living expenses
That any income that you earn will not be used to support the J-1
Photocopies of any past EAD card(s)
Photocopies of the J-1’s and J-2’s I-94 cards/printouts
Where to send your completed application
Where you file your J-2 Work Authorization Application will depend on several factors.
Find the correct mailing address
Tips for your application
Keep a photocopy of your application.
Include a job offer letter with your application if you have one. It may help expedite the processing of your application.
We’re here to help
We know you may have questions about J-2 work authorization, so we have put together a list of common questions that many students have.
How long does the process take?
It takes USCIS about three months to process these applications. About three weeks after receiving your application, USCIS will send you a Receipt Notice. This is an official notice that it has received your application and are working on it. On the Receipt Notice there is a Receipt Number (like a tracking number for your application) and Receipt Date (the date CIS received your application). About three months from the Receipt Date you should receive your EAD. Remember, you must wait until you receive the EAD (card) to begin work.
Do I have to have a Social Security number to apply for the EAD?
No. In fact, you cannot obtain a social security number until or after you apply for an EAD card. There are two ways to obtain a Social Security number. The first way is to apply for your Social Security number and EAD card at the same time using the Form I-765. The second way is to apply for your Social Security card after you receive your EAD card.
If you are applying for your SSN card using the Form I-765, please follow these instructions:
For Q13a, answer no
For Q14, answer yes
For Q15, answer yes
For Q16 and Q17, answer with your parents' names
Do I have to have a job offer to apply for J-2 work authorization?
No. J-2 work authorization is an open work authorization. You may work full or part time, for as many employers as you like. Your employer does not need to sponsor you for this work authorization; however, if he/she provides a job offer letter, it may speed up the processing of your application.
If I already have J-2 work authorization but it is expiring, what should I do?
You need to apply for it again. You will also need to include a photocopy of your current EAD (front and back) and should include an employment letter if you will continue your current employment.
Note
: You should apply approximately four months prior to the expiration of your current EAD to ensure that your new card arrives in time to allow you to continuously work. Once the current work authorization (EAD) expires, you can’t work until you receive the new one.
My DS-2019 will expire this year and the J-1 is planning to extend it. How does this affect me?
If possible, you should wait to apply for work authorization until the DS-2019 has been extended. The reason for that is that USCIS will grant your work authorization for a maximum of 12 months or until the expiration of your DS-2019, whichever is sooner (for example, if your DS-2019 expires in seven months, USCIS will give you work authorization that expires in seven months).
How many times can I renew my work authorization?
You may renew your work authorization as long as you are in J-2 status. There is no limit to the number of applications/renewals that you can make.
Finding a Job
Visas & Work Authorization
F-1 Students
J-1 Students
J-2 Work Authorization
Severe Economic Hardship
Apply for a Social Security Number