[Source URL]: https://ois.indiana.edu/admissions/apply/graduate/index.html

Home
Admissions
Apply
Graduate Students
Graduate Students
Application process for international graduate students
There are many options for international graduate students to pursue at Indiana University Bloomington.
Explore them on the Degrees & Majors page.
Steps for applying to a graduate program
Review admission requirements
Each department has its own graduate admission requirements, which are not determined or monitored by the Office of International Services (OIS).
We review international graduate applications and academic records for U.S. bachelor’s degree equivalency. We then share our initial evaluation with the appropriate graduate departments for consideration.
Visit your
intended program’s website
to see its specific admission requirements.
Not sure which academic program is right for you? Browse the
550+ academic programs
available on our campus.
Country-specific admission requirements
You may apply for graduate study during your final year of undergraduate study or after receiving a U.S. bachelor’s degree or its
recognized equivalent
.
Demonstration of English proficiency
If your native language is not English, your department may require you to submit results for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) exam, regardless of where you were educated.
Indiana Academic English Test
Your department may also require you to take the Indiana Academic English Test when you arrive at IU to determine if you must take any English courses. You must agree to take any English courses that are recommended based on the results of this examination. Fees for special part-time English courses are the same as for other courses; however, credits earned in these English courses do not meet degree requirements.
English language requirements for associate instructors
Finally, if you are eligible for an associate instructorship position, you must meet additional English language requirements, including passing the
Test of English Proficiency for Associate Instructor Candidates (TEPAIC)
.
Review deadlines
Each graduate program determines its own application deadline and decides when it will accept applications.
Visit your
intended program’s website
to find out when you need to apply.
Submit the online application
You will need to submit an application no matter what graduate program you apply to. Some programs use the
IU application
, while others use a specialized application process standard in that field. You can find information about the application process on your prospective program’s website.
Cancel your application
If you would like to cancel your application or have your departmental offer of admission withdrawn, please contact your department directly.
Receive your Atlas login information
After you submit your online application, you will receive immediate email confirmation that it was received.
OIS will email you your
Atlas
login information within five days of receiving your completed application. You will then need to log in to Atlas so you can upload the additional documents you are required to submit. Look for the
Graduate Application Checklist
under the
Requests
section.
Submit your supporting documents
Completing the application for admission is the first step toward becoming a student at Indiana University.
After you have submitted your application, there are some supporting materials that you need to provide. All documents submitted for admission consideration become the property of IU.
Official academic records
Submit your official academic records in the original language from every postsecondary school you have attended, whether or not you obtained a degree. If the original is not in English, also include a certified, literal translation. Records must be issued by the registrar or record-keeping official from the institution at which the work was completed.
Notarized copies of academic records are not acceptable. If you studied in the United States or Canada, have official transcripts sent directly to our office from the issuing institution’s records office. If you studied outside of the United States or Canada, contact your department to ask how they would like to receive your academic records.
Learn more about country-specific requirements
Official test scores
Visit the website of your intended department to find out which test scores are required. You must submit scores from any required tests before an admission decision can be made. Have testing agencies send official score reports to IU.
Additional documents required by your department
These documents may include letters of recommendation or essays, and they may be sent either to the Office of International Services (OIS) with your academic records or directly to the department.
Demonstration of English proficiency
Every department requires proof of English proficiency.
IU Bloomington’s TOEFL code is 1324. The testing service should report your TOEFL scores directly to IU Bloomington.
Learn more about demonstrating English proficiency
Submit financial documentation
As an international student at IU Bloomington, you are required to submit documents in
Atlas
, proving you have the financial means to support yourself for a full calendar year, including tuition, fees, and living expenses.
Applicants to graduate programs must submit this information before admission can be finalized and before visa documents can be issued.
We encourage you to submit your financial documents as soon as possible.
Learn about required financial documentation
Receive a decision from your department
You will be notified of the admission decision directly by the department you applied to—by email or by mail.
Receive your admission letter from OIS
If you were admitted to a graduate or professional program at IU Bloomington, OIS notify you via email and begin to finalize your application and process your necessary immigration documents.
Note: OIS cannot process your immigration documents until you have submitted the
required financial documents
.
About IU Bloomington
Visit Us
Apply
Freshman Students
Transfer Students
Graduate Students
Cost & Financial Aid
Prepare for Your First Year