[Source URL]: https://omnisoc.iu.edu/

Cybersecurity for research and higher education
With two decades of experience from the
GlobalNOC
behind it, OmniSOC is the shared security operations center (SOC) for higher education and research. OmniSOC rapidly delivers only critical, actionable, high-quality alerts 24/7, allowing cybersecurity staff to focus on what’s important—at substantial cost savings—from a trusted leader in the higher education cybersecurity community.
OmniSOC operates collaboratively across
member institutions
, reducing the time from first awareness of a cybersecurity threat anywhere to mitigation everywhere for our members in
higher education, regional R&E networks, and research facilities
.
OmniSOC counters cybersecurity threats by:
Collecting cybersecurity data from partners
Integrating this data with other threat intelligence
Conducting proactive threat hunting
Monitoring, triaging, and analyzing security events
Learn more about our services
OmniSOC is...
Higher education’s only collaborative multi-state institution security operations center
The only collaborative SOC supporting National Science Foundation (NSF) research
The only SOC with a multi-state institution data sharing agreement for researchers
Founded by five Big Ten Academic Alliance schools and located at IU, OmniSOC also provides cybersecurity for the nation’s greatest research through the
ResearchSOC
, the NSF Research Security Operations Center. OmniSOC (including ResearchSOC) has adopted the
Trusted CI Framework
for our own security program, and advise members in its use upon request.
OmniSOC is a proud member of the
Indiana University Cybersecurity Community
.
Who we serve
Our members include higher education and research institutions of all sizes, both public and private. Learn how we help organizations like yours.
Small colleges and universities
Research and education networks
Research facilities and projects
Large colleges and universities
We went with OmniSOC because they understand Higher Ed. They understand what research is. They understand who students are. Security in higher education is just different.
Mark Herron, CISO at Case Western Reserve University
Ready to get started?
Contact us today!