[Source URL]: https://oneill.indiana.edu/index.html

Lead for the greater good
More than a motto – it’s what we do every day at the O’Neill School.
Undergraduate Degree Programs
Master’s Degree Programs
Doctoral Degree Programs
Online
Explore leadership opportunities
Description of the video:
No words in this video
Get a top-ranked education
#1
in four specialty areas according to
U.S. News & World Report
Learn more about our master's programs
#5
globally for research: Center for World University Rankings
See all of our rankings
37,000+
in the O’Neill School alumni network
Visit our alumni pages
O’Neill remains #1 among public schools in U.S. News & World Report
The O’Neill School has maintained its top spot among public schools in the country in the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of best graduate schools for public affairs, with four specialty areas ranked #1 and eight in the top 10.
See the rankings
Bridging the gap: O’Neill student connects healthcare policymakers to research
Madelyn Mustaine
gained hands-on experience researching Medicaid policies through O’Neill’s D.C. Accelerator Program. Now, she’s preparing to join the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission, advising Congress on Medicaid policy.
Read about her experience
O’Neill Leadership Fellows gain experience, help Hoosiers through community organizations
Whether alleviating poverty, helping patients, advancing the arts, or protecting the environment, 120 fellows through the Indiana University
O’Neill Leadership Program
are helping 65 Monroe County institutions improve the lives of Hoosiers.
Read the IU News story
News
From city hall to the classroom: Indiana mayors teach the art of public service
O’Neill School retains #1 ranking among public schools in latest U.S. News & World Report rankings
Rutherford elected to PMRA Board of Directors
Study reveals barriers in women’s path to leadership and equal pay in Protestant churches
Six O’Neill seniors recognized by IU for scholarship, leadership, and service
IU to strengthen, expand presence as national leader through new Washington, DC, location
DEV-CaMP analyzes state of EV-specific critical material mining in the U.S.
Reingold, former O'Neill School executive associate dean, named executive vice president and chancellor of IU Bloomington campus
Helmke joins O'Neill Speaks to talk about the critical role of government in daily life
Li honored with John Russell Mather Paper of the Year Award
Study shows rooftop solar could be answer to energy insecurity
Future leaders in action: IU students strengthen security and policy in Washington, DC
Fulton is co-PI on a $1.4M grant to help rural congregations address community needs
Simon appointed to JAMA Health Forum editorial board
Sastry appointed an O’Neill executive in residence
Local government officials view nonprofits as providing important resources, Indiana University study shows
O'Neill School, NAPA hosted Evidence-Based Solutions for Improving Federal Government Performance Conference Jan. 13 in Washington, D.C.
O’Neill School designated School of National Service by AmeriCorps
Simon elected president of APPAM
Yoder leads multiple studies on farmers’ motivations on cover crops
O'Neill School, NAPA hosting Evidence-Based Solutions for Improving Federal Government Performance Conference Jan. 13 in Washington, D.C.
Novick named national finalist for Frontiers Planet Prize
Duncan to serve as invited researcher for Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab
Deslatte appointed associate editor of Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory
Mooney appointed to NSF’s Committee on Equal Opportunities in Science and Engineering
Simon awarded NIH grant to study healthcare for Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias
Statistics Made Simple top-ranked statistics podcast in the world
O’Neill School announces launch of Master of Public Policy program
O'Neill School researchers take the spotlight at 2024 ARNOVA Annual Conference
O’Neill School to shine at APPAM Fall Research Conference
O’Neill School-Vietnam partnership grows during Vietnam-U.S. Fall Forum 2024
U.S. pension funds could be key to unlocking growth potential in Africa
O’Neill Leadership Fellows gain experience, help Hoosiers through community organizations
Fernandez named inaugural director of O’Neill Center for Leadership in Public Service
Fulton awarded NSF grant to study philanthropy deserts
Mooney appointed to NSF Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences Advisory Committee
16 undergraduate scholars to advance sustainability research alongside faculty mentors
Heim, Tran honored with Musgrave Prize by the National Tax Journal
O’Neill School impact on showcase at NASPAA Annual Conference
O’Neill School announces establishment of Paul H. O’Neill Center for Leadership in Public Service
Observing Civic Engagement project awarded $900,000 grant from AmeriCorps
Forever chemicals in Great Lakes: $7.2M EPA grant funds O’Neill researcher’s continued study
Venier appointed to Great Lakes Science Advisory Board
O'Neill School showcases expertise at ABFM Conference in Cleveland
Candidates for Indiana governor discuss policy issues in IU Public Policy Institute’s Gubernatorial Forum
Moldogaziev awarded Burkhead Award
Khurana earns ARNOVA's Lester M. Salamon Award for dissertation
Integrated Program in the Environment announces Osterhoudt as new director
EPA’s Janet McCabe to join national climate change discussion at IU Indianapolis
Study shows professional tax preparers cost U.S. government billions of dollars annually
View more news and read our blog