[Source URL]: https://ostromworkshop.indiana.edu/index.html

Attend a colloquium
This 50-year tradition continues with a weekly Monday Colloquium Series.
Discover our research programs
See how hundreds of disciplines come together in these seven broad categories.
Become an Affiliate
Affiliates have access to advanced networking, research, and funding opportunities.
Upcoming events
Apr
16
Ostrom Workshop | Research Series: Adriana Abreu
Apr
18
The IU Department of Political Science Presents: The Russell Hanson Annual Lecture
Apr
21
Ostrom Workshop | Colloquium: Jessica O’Reilly
Apr
30
Ostrom Workshop | Research Series: Felipe Bravo Pena
See more events
Leading the world in commons and governance research
The Ostrom Workshop is where the world's top academics, lawyers, economists, policymakers, political scientists, urban and rural developers, and dozens of other disciplines come together. It
was founded at Indiana University in 1973 by Nobel laureate Elinor Ostrom and her husband, Vincent. Here, professionals and researchers come together to share solutions to the world’s most pressing problems involving communal and contested resources—from clean water to secure cyberspace.
One of the reasons we called this place a workshop instead of a center was because...the whole idea of artisans and apprentices and the structure of a good workshop really made an impression on us.
Elinor Ostrom, on the founding of the Workshop
50+
Years of groundbreaking research on governance and the commons.
7
There are 7 interdisciplinary research program areas
200+
Researchers, students, and other collaborators working with us around the world.
Explore more inside the Workshop
Get the latest news
See what's happening in the workshop and among our researchers
Teach the Workshop
Watch and download informative videos, slides, and find courses that can help you teach the next generation of Workshoppers.
Search the library
Search our library of over 94,000 papers, dissertations, books, and more.
Nominate a visiting scholar
Know someone doing remarkable work? Nominate them to become a visiting scholar.
Find and apply for funding
The Workshop has a limited number of funds available, including seed funding for research.
Join a working group
Talk with your peers and new people around the world and at IU in a working group.