[Source URL]: https://publichealth.indiana.edu/masters/degrees-majors/ph-administration.html

Home
Masters
Majors & Degrees
Public Health Administration
Public Health Administration
Position yourself for public health leadership
Strong public health leadership requires a comprehensive understanding of the organization and financing of public health institutions, and their interplay with the health care delivery system. The Public Health Administration concentration is designed to help you build the expertise to create and implement policies, as well as manage programs, that promote the public's health. Thorough coursework and extensive practical experience will prepare you to assume a leadership role in the public or private sector.
See degree information in the bulletin
Learn more about the Department of Applied Health Science
See faculty in this program
Comprehensive coursework and extensive field experience
You will study a core, integrated public health curriculum, along with subjects specific to Public Health Administration, including finance and budgeting, public health economics, legal issues, and resource acquisition and management. You will also have the opportunity to complete courses for an additional M.P.H. major or an online graduate certificate.
Opportunities to apply theoretical knowledge to practical and professional settings are central to the Master of Public Health program. You will be able to work with faculty on
research, teaching, and service projects.
In your final semester, you will apply what you've learned in a
professional field setting
.
When you graduate, you will be a competitive applicant for a number of positions, such as program manager, public health advisor, or policy analyst. Our
Office of Career Services
will help you as you chart your professional path.
Take the next step
Find out how to apply
See faculty and their research
Learn about career resources
Majors & Degrees
Online program
How to Apply
Advising
Costs and Financial Aid
Continuing Education
Certificates
Contact & Visit
Virtual Tour