[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/academic-programs/graduate/amp.html

Home
Academic Programs
Graduate
Accelerated Master's Program
Accelerated Master's Program
The Robert F. Byrnes Russian and East European Institute (REEI) Accelerated Master's Program is an integrated B.A./M.A. program that allows undergraduate students at Indiana University Bloomington (IUB) the opportunity to work towards a bachelor’s degree in any College of Arts and Sciences major and the M.A. degree in Russian and East European Studies simultaneously. Students are able to complete the undergraduate and graduate degrees in the course of five years. The program caters to students pursuing academic and research-oriented careers as well as those interested in a range of professional fields, including government, private business, and the non-profit sector. The program is open to students obtaining undergraduate degrees in the College of Arts and Sciences. Advanced competence in Russian and East European studies will make students highly competitive for further graduate study or employment in various governmental, non-profit, and private sectors. Like other Accelerated Master's Program within the College of Arts and Sciences (College) at IUB, the REEI Accelerated Master's Program enables undergraduate students to take graduate courses while still in undergraduate status and under the flat tuition rate, thus providing them with more financial flexibility.
Eligibility
Students become eligible to apply for the Accelerated Master's Program when they achieve sophomore status. The program is open to students with any major in the College who have met the following requirements:
Current College GPA of 3.0 or higher
Completion of all IUB General Education requirements in the semester of application
Degree requirements
In addition to student B.A. requirements, there are 30 credit hours of graduate coursework for the M.A. portion of the degree. Please refer to the
College of Arts + Sciences Academic Bulletin
and the
University Graduate Bulletin
for degree requirement details.
Application requirements
Students interested in applying for the Accelerated Master's Program should plan to meet first with their academic advisor and then with REEI senior staff. Following the meeting with REEI senior staff, students must provide REEI with:
A 1-page statement of interest, indicating why the student wishes to pursue the Accelerated Master's Program.
An unofficial copy of their Indiana University transcript to demonstrate:
College GPA of 3.0 or higher
Completion of all IUB General Education requirements by the end of the semester of application
Students who wish to enter the program in the fall must submit their application materials by
March 1 of the previous spring semester
. Students who wish to enter the program in the spring must submit their application materials by
October 1 of the previous fall semester
.
Apply Here
Following Admission to the Accelerated Master's Program
In order to successfully complete the Accelerated Master's Program, students must pass a series of benchmarks before the first year of full-time graduate study. These benchmarks will be communicated during the prospective student’s first meeting with REEI senior staff. Please note that all Accelerated Master's students will be required to submit a separate application to the Graduate School.
The Hamilton Lugar School is part of the College of Arts + Sciences
The Russian and East European Institute in the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies is part of the College of Arts and Sciences. You can get more information in the College of Arts and Sciences Student Portal.
Figure out what classes to take to earn your degree, keep track of your progress, be aware of the College’s policies and procedures, and a whole lot more.
Undergraduate
Graduate
Degrees
Academic Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
Accelerated Master's Program
Courses
Student Experience
MA Essays
Career Preparation
How to Apply