[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/academic-programs/graduate/student_experience/index.html

Home
Academic Programs
Graduate
Student Experience
Student Experience
REEI
is a community of scholars, students, and international visitors engaged in learning about the most important questions facing the peoples of the former Soviet Union, East Central and Southeastern Europe. Each week we sponsor cultural and intellectual activities designed to enhance your classroom experience.
Our studies and discussions are thoroughly interdisciplinary. You will interact with faculty and students in a wide range of fields from anthropology to politics, history, high culture and popular culture, environmental studies, public administration, library and information science, business, and law.
Bloomington is a fun and exciting place to live, offering cultural events, festivals, music, and lots of dining options. Find out what makes our town so special.
Check out Bloomington
Major figures from the region often visit Indiana University. In past years, we have welcomed Mikhail Gorbachev (former president of the U.S.S.R.), Lech Wałęsa (leader of Poland’s Solidarity opposition and later president of Poland), Adam Michnik (jailed Solidarity activist and now publisher of Poland’s most popular newspaper), and Madeleine Albright (former U.S. Secretary of State under President Bill Clinton)—to name just the most prominent. The ambassadors and general consuls of the countries we study are frequent visitors to Indiana University.
The REEI experience
Your
REEI
experience connects you with mentors and friends who share your interest in global affairs, particularly in relation to Russia and Eastern Europe. Your coursework gives you the opportunity to examine the past, present, and future of this part of the world. You also have the ability to focus on attaining skills and fluency in languages of the region, through the Language Workshop, study abroad, and other coursework.
Language tables, special lectures and events, and information about internships and careers all help you immerse yourself in this region. As you graduate and move on, your connections with the people of
REEI
will continue to offer fellowship and enrichment.
Learn about study abroad
Explore summer language study
Find news + events
Undergraduate
Graduate
Degrees
Academic Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
Accelerated Master's Program
Courses
Student Experience
Summer Language Study
Study Abroad
MA Essays
Career Preparation
How to Apply