[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/academic-programs/undergraduate/index.html

Home
Academic Programs
Undergraduate
Undergraduate
Curiosity about the world required
The world that stretches from Poland to Siberia and from Estonia to Albania is a fascinating place. Your own interest may have been sparked by reading a Russian novel, listening to music from the region, or seeing a film from Yugoslavia. You may have visited Budapest or become intrigued by the complex history of Eastern Europe, or by the current relationship between the U.S. and Russia.
Learn more about our
regions of study
.
A minor in Russian and East European Studies (REEI) allows you to explore this broad area across many departments. Curiosity about the world is the main prerequisite. Willingness to learn a language of the region, and to travel there to
study abroad
, is also very useful. Your
REEI
minor will allow you to show potential employers that you have matched the skills of your chosen major with deep knowledge of a dynamic and important part of the world.
We offer three minors that pair well with many degrees: an undergraduate
REEI
minor; a
REEI
minor with language certification; and a Polish Studies minor. REEI now also offers a
Accelerated Master's Program
for undergraduate students!
Resources across many domains
As part of the
Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies
,
REEI
offers an interdisciplinary program designed to give undergraduates comprehensive training in the Russian and East European areas.
Earning a minor involves completing coursework from among a wide range of Russian and East European courses in more than twenty departments at
IU
. These courses are in the in the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Education, the School of Informatics and Computing, the O’Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs, the School of Public Health, the Kelley School of Business, and the Jacobs School of Music.
Any
REEI
credential may be earned along with any bachelor’s degree. REEI minors offer valuable training for future teachers, lawyers, government service administrators, journalists, business people, and professionals in many other fields.
To declare a minor in Russian and East European Studies, please contact our
undergraduate advisor
.
Explore our minors
REEI minor
REEI minor with language certification
Polish Studies minor
Interested in applying?
Contact our advisor
Undergraduate
REEI Minor
REEI Minor + Language Certificate
REEI Area Studies Certificate
Accelerated Master's Program
Polish Studies Minor
Funding
Advising
Career Preparation
Student Experience
Graduate