[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/about/staff/nowacky-elliott.html

Home
About
Staff
Elliott Nowacky
Elliott Nowacky
Student Services Coordinator
HLS Military Relations Coordinator
Email:
enowacky@iu.edu
Global and International Studies Building, 4020
About Elliott Nowacky
Elliott Nowacky received his B.A. in History and German from Montana State University in 1988. From 1988 until his retirement in 2008, he worked as a Field Artillery Officer serving in a wide variety of leadership and staff assignments here in the United States and overseas. Elliott was also trained as a Russian Foreign Area Officer (FAO) and is a graduate of the Defense Language Institute’s Russian Basic Course. As a senior fellow at the George C. Marshall Center for Security Studies in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, he attended a one-month course at the Russian Diplomatic Academy in Moscow, Russia; interned at the U.S. Embassy in Kiev; and was the interim Chief of the Office of Defense Cooperation at the former U.S. Embassy in Almaty, Kazakhstan. During his final deployment before retiring, Elliott worked as a Central Asian Analyst for 3rd U.S. Army (FWD) at Camp Arifjan, Kuwait. While there he led a team of U.S. Army Engineers on an official visit to military schools in Tashkent and Samarkand, Uzbekistan and was 3rd U.S. Army’s representative at U.S. CENTCOM’s consultative staff talks with military delegations from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
Elliott has also worked extensively with the Polish Army and was a guest lecturer at the Slovakian Military Academy in Liptovsky Mikulas. After retiring from active duty he received his M.A. in Russian and East European Studies at the University of Texas at Austin (UT) in 2012. From 2013-16 he was the International Programs Coordinator for Center for Russian and East European and Eurasian Studies, also at
UT
. In addition to managing two federally-funded overseas study abroad programs Elliott served as the resident director for the University of Texas’s summer Moscow–Texas Connections program at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, Russia (2013), and for their Project Global Officer Program in Batumi, Georgia (2015). He joined the
REEI/HLS
staff on November 1, 2017.
Director’s message
Regions of Study
Affiliate Faculty
Visiting Faculty and Scholars
Staff
Graduate Students
About Bloomington
Land Acknowledgement