[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/academic-programs/graduate/index.html

Home
Academic Programs
Graduate
Graduate
Numerous advanced degree options
Our Russian and East European Institute (REEI) master’s programs give you a broad understanding of the geographical area and its peoples while providing the opportunity to examine in depth the aspect of Russian and East European studies that most interests them.
The Russian and East European Institute (REEI) offers numerous advanced degree options:
Two M.A. tracks in Russian and East European Studies
Seven dual degree programs
One joint degree program
A graduate certificate and a Ph.D. minor
Language instruction
IU
offers instruction in more languages of the region than does any other university. Between our top-ranked
Department of Slavic and East European Languages and Cultures
, our unique
Department of Central Eurasian Studies
, the Institute for
European Studies
, and the
Department of Germanic Studies
, you can choose from at least fourteen area languages.
IU
is the only university in the United States at which students can earn a master’s degree focusing not only on Czech, Polish, Russian and South Slavic Area Studies, but also less commonly taught regions like the Baltics, the Caucasus, Hungary and Romania.
IU’s
summer
Language Workshop
, the largest in the world, gives you an opportunity to add proficiency in a second area language.
IU
offers advanced levels of instruction in more languages than any other university. This includes sixth-year Russian and a third year of most East European languages.
We offer content courses in the languages of the area and specialized language courses in areas such as politics, business, and environmental science.
Cost considerations
IU
students receive high quality instruction at very reasonable prices. Our tuition rates are far lower than private institutions and lower than other state institutions with programs in Russian and East European area studies. For current rates, please refer to the
Office of the Bursar’s Rates and Policies page
.
Many fellowships and assistantships support students at
IU
each year.
The summer
Language Workshop
offers in-state tuition rates to all students, whether they are from Indiana or not.
The cost of living in Bloomington is lower than in most other U.S. cities.
The combination of low tuition and low cost of living adds up to an unmatched bargain for academic training at a top-ranked program like
REEI
.
Learn more about funding opportunities
Interested in applying to REEI?
Learn how to apply
Undergraduate
Graduate
Degrees
Academic Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
Accelerated Master's Program
Courses
Student Experience
MA Essays
Career Preparation
How to Apply