[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/academic-programs/graduate/degrees/index.html#minor

Home
Academic Programs
Graduate
Degrees
Degrees
Degrees offered
The Russian and East European Institute (REEI) offers two master’s degree program tracks in Russian and East European studies; seven dual degrees; one joint degree program; a graduate certificate program; and a Ph.D. minor program.
REEI M.A. degrees
M.A. degree
The REEI M.A. degree program is intended to prepare area specialists for non-academic careers in government and private sector fields.
Mid-career professional M.A. track
This M.A. track is geared towards professionals looking to advance their careers.
M.A. dual/joint degrees
M.A. + M.B.A.
The Russian and East European Institute and the Kelley School of Business jointly offer a three-year program.
M.A. + M.I.S.
The Russian and Eastern European Institute and the Department of Information and Library Science in the School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering jointly offer a three-year program.
M.A. + M.S. Media Studies.
The Russian and East European Institute and The Media School jointly offer a three-year program.
M.A. + M.L.S.
The Russian and East European Institute and the Department of Information and Library Science in the School of Informatics and Computing jointly offer a three-year program.
M.A. + M.P.A.
The Russian and Eastern European Institute and the School of Public and Environmental Affairs jointly offer a three-year program.
M.A. + M.P.H.
The Russian and Eastern European Institute and the School of Public Health jointly offer a three-year program.
M.A. + M.S.S.I.
The Russian and Eastern European Institute and the School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering jointly offer a three-year program in Security Informatics.
Joint M.A. + J.D.
The Russian and East European Institute and the Maurer School of Law offer this joint degree.
Graduate certificate + Ph.D. minor
Graduate certificate
Students working towards a Ph.D. may add this certificate in Russian and East European Studies to their degree plan.
Ph.D. minor
Students admitted to the institute must be admitted first by a department in which they will work simultaneously for a Ph.D.
Interested in applying to REEI?
Learn how to apply
The Russian and East European Institute in the Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies is part of the College of Arts and Sciences. You can get more information in the College of Arts and Sciences Student Portal.
Figure out what classes to take to earn your degree, keep track of your progress, be aware of the College’s policies and procedures, and a whole lot more.
Undergraduate
Graduate
Degrees
Academic Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
Accelerated Master's Program
Courses
Student Experience
MA Essays
Career Preparation
How to Apply