[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/index.html

Join an innovative hub of training and expertise!
Indiana University’s Robert F. Byrnes Russian and East European Institute (REEI) is recognized as one of the top Russian and East European Area Studies institutions in the United States, and we have been a continuously-funded U.S. Department of Education Title VI National Resource/FLAS Center for more than sixty years.
Boasting nearly 100 affiliated
faculty members
across the campus, we provide an interdisciplinary home to experts and students of Russia and Eastern Europe. Our mission is to expose students with diverse career goals to the languages, cultures, and politics of the REE region by supporting research and instruction of the highest caliber at all levels. REEI offers opportunities to travel, study, and intern abroad. REEI’s over
2,000 alumni
have built careers across the globe in a wide variety of sectors government service and NGOs, have careers in the corporate world and academia, and even fly airplanes!
REEI presents a
wide variety of programming
, including lectures by affiliated faculty and visiting scholars, roundtables and symposia devoted to timely themes, concerts, films, exhibits, and professional development events. The
Прямая речь! (Straight Talk!)
colloquium features Russian-language lectures by native speakers; the new series Українські діалоги (Ukrainian Dialogs) presents Ukrainian-language talks. We collaborate with other
area studies centers in the Hamilton Lugar School
and units across campus to develop and co-sponsor projects and events of interest to IU students, faculty, and the community at large.
Our undergraduate and graduate programs will help you meet your personal academic and professional goals by preparing you for a career of your dreams!
Academic Opportunities
Complement your undergraduate degree
Choose from three undergraduate minors.
Two master’s degree tracks
Gain a broad understanding of the Russian/East European world region while developing specialized expertise.
Dynamic dual degrees
Combine your REEI master’s degree with a degree from one of eight professional schools.
Enhance your scholarly expertise
Choose from two programs to deepen your knowledge of the Russian/East European world region while working on your Ph.D.
Accelerated Master's Program
An integrated B.A./M.A. program open to any College of Arts and Sciences major
Hone your language skills
Explore streamlined summer language learning classes for several languages in the Russian/East European world region
Student Funding Opportunities
REEI
has been designated as one of 10 U.S. Department of Education-funded Title VI National Resource/
FLAS
Centers for Russia and Eastern Europe for the 2018-2022 grant period. We offer students many funding opportunities including support for studying and research abroad, as well as conference travel.
Undergraduate funding
Graduate funding
Ready to take the next step?
Incoming first year students
Contact IU Admissions
Current IU undergraduate students
Contact our advisor
Prospective graduate students
See our application process
Events
Lecture from Dr. Mykola Riabchuk on “Mapping a ‘Nowhere Nation’: ‘Imperial Knowledge’ and Challenges of Decolonization”
Thursday, April 17, 2025
Starts at
12 p.m.
Global and International Studies Building
-
Join us for a lecture on identity and state building from a renowned Ukrainian scholar.
REEI MA Essay/Thesis Poster Exhibition
Wednesday, April 23, 2025
12 p.m.
—
2 p.m.
Global and International Studies Building
-
Meet REEI’s graduating MA cohort and check out their MA Essay/Thesis work!
Lecture by Dr. Sarah Cameron, “Elusive Water: The Life and Death of the Aral Sea”
Thursday, April 24, 2025
Starts at
9:35 a.m.
WOODBURN HALL
-
In 2017, United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres called the disappearance of Central Asia’s Aral Sea “probably the biggest ecological catastrophe of our time.” But in the more than si...
Read more
Tea & Coffee Hour with REEI
Friday, April 25, 2025
Starts at
1 p.m.
Global and International Studies Building
-
Drop in any time between 1:00 - 2:00 pm to chat with REEI staff and students over some hot tea & coffee.
REEI Colloquium Series: PhD Student Stanislav Menzelevskyi on”Chernobyl Cinema: Technology, Ecology, and Film in (Soviet) Ukrainian Culture”
Friday, April 25, 2025
Starts at
2 p.m.
Global and International Studies Building
-
REEI Colloquium Series focuses on academic engagement and discussion. This event is featuring a lecture from Ph.D. student Stanislav Menzelevskyi about Chornobyl’s cinematic legacy and the shift ...
Read more
View More Events
Recent REEI News
Veronika Trotter's article published in the Bulletin of Armenian Libraries
FEBRUARY 14, 2025
Veronika Trotter's open access article about Armenian holdings at Indiana University libraries was recently published in the
Bulletin of Armenian Libraries
.
REEI Director Halina Goldberg’s recent book wins Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America award
JANUARY 06, 2025
Polish Jewish Culture Beyond the Capital: Centering the Periphery
, edited by
Halina Goldberg
and Nancy Sinkoff (2023, Rutgers University Press), won the Polish Institute of Arts and Sciences of America’s Anna M. Cienciala Award for Best-Edited Multi-Authored Scholarly Volume.
Vesna Dimitrieska named “Best of the Best in Higher Education”
DECEMBER 12, 2024
The Indiana Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages honored
Vesna Dimitrieska
with the 2024 Best of the Best in Higher Education award in recognition of her many years of service to Indiana and her impact on the local and national landscape for dual language education.
IU expands program supporting Ukrainian scholars to 8 more Big Ten universities
DECEMBER 3, 2024
An innovative fellowship program at Indiana University that has enabled 69 Ukrainian scholars to continue their research and teaching since Russia’s invasion in 2022 will now expand to eight additional Big Ten universities, thanks to support from the Big Ten Academic Alliance..
Russian and East European Institute hosts fifth U.S. Army War College Fellow
REEI is among only 49 institutions around the globe to host USAWC Fellows – field-grade officers who complete individual learning plans designed to enhance their critical thinking, academic prowess, and professional skills while sharing their practical expertise and representing the U.S. Army to their host institution and community.
Read more news