[Source URL]: https://reei.indiana.edu/academic-programs/graduate/how-to-apply/index.html

Home
Academic Programs
Graduate
How to Apply
How to Apply
How to apply
Please apply online. With the exception of the application fee, all materials should be sent directly to
HLS Graduate Administrative Services
:
HLS Graduate Administrative Services
Indiana University
Global and International Studies Building
355 North Eagleson Ave.
Bloomington, IN 47405-1105
International applications are due December 1. Domestic applications are due January 1.
Apply online
International students
International students must apply to International Admissions using the International online application. The deadline for international applications is December 1. All supporting materials should be sent to:
Office of International Services
Indiana University
Ferguson International Center
330 N. Eagleson Avenue
Bloomington, IN 47405
For more information, contact International Admissions at
newtoiu@iu.edu
or call (812) 855-9086.
What belongs in your application file
A complete application file consists of the following:
Graduate School Application for Admission and Financial Aid.
Statement of Purpose (300-500 words) concerning your interests and aspirations.
Three letters of recommendation (forms supplied, but not required).
A writing sample of up to 20 pages.
One official transcript from each college or university previously attended.
Applicants to the REEI MA program are not required to submit standardized test scores with their application (e.g. GRE, GMAT, LSAT).
Application fee of $70.00 paid by credit card online.
Contact us
We are happy to respond to any questions you may have. Contact the
REEI Student Services Coordinator
for specific questions or concerns about your application.
Contact us
Ready to apply?
Fill out the online application
Contact us
Undergraduate
Graduate
Degrees
Academic Opportunities
Funding Opportunities
Accelerated Master's Program
Courses
Student Experience
MA Essays
Career Preparation
How to Apply
FAQs