[Source URL]: https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/funding/index.html

Home
Funding & Proposal Support
Funding Search Tools
Funding Search Tools
Selecting a funding source
There are many different funding sources available to help you fund your work, within and outside of the university.
Funding opportunities, tools & resources
Internal funding
Indiana University internal funding supports a wide range of work, from large-scale collaborative projects to individual studies.
Pivot
Search a worldwide database of RFP opportunities and set up email alerts to receive weekly notifications of new opportunities. Pivot aggregates published funding opportunities.
Corporate & foundation funding
Private companies and foundations are a valuable source of funding for research and creative activities. Experts in corporate relations and foundation relations are available to help you pursue private funding.
Limited submission opportunities
Funding agencies sometimes limit the number of proposals an institution may submit to a particular funding program. Find out about limited submission opportunities and how IU experts can help.
Foundation Directory Online
Search a comprehensive list of grantmakers, including private organizations, government agencies, and international funders. Foundation Directory Online aggregates 990s from private foundations and includes detailed information about previously funded grants.
Grants.gov
The Grants.gov system houses information on over 1,000 grant programs and vets grant applications for federal grant-making agencies.
Research Administration Dashboards
Self-serve Tableau reports on IU's research funding.
Tips on searching funding opportunities
As you explore your funding opportunity options, here are some helpful things to keep in mind:
Guidelines and procedures
Check
internal funding guidelines
to make sure that you are eligible for the opportunity that interests you.
Review external funding opportunities to find out if the funder
restricts the number of proposals accepted from one institution
. If there is a limit on the number of submissions, you will need to go through the Limited Submissions selection process to apply to the external funder.
If you are interested in a funding opportunity offered by a foundation or corporation included on Indiana University’s
Critical Contacts list
, contact the office of
Corporate and Foundation Relations
before making contact with the organization. The CFR team will assist you on any foundation or corporate funding opportunity.
If you are pursuing opportunities from the Department of Defense or center-level opportunities from other agencies, the Vice President for Research office may be able to provide you and your team with strategic, informational, and proposal development assistance. Contact
research@iu.edu
with the name and deadline of the program you are interested in for more information.
Be aware of the difference between sponsored projects and gifts. Sponsored projects include competitive grants, contracts, and agreements awarded with well-defined obligations that generally need to be fulfilled within a specific time frame. Funds not used within that set time frame can be revoked. Unlike competitive funding opportunities, gift funds are given voluntarily, with no reciprocal obligation, and are usually irrevocable. At IU, the
Indiana University Foundation
assists with gift funding and gift proposal development.
Consider your time commitment when applying for external funding
Major external proposals take weeks or months to prepare. Consider your timeline carefully, allowing 40-60 hours of preparation time before the
Proposal Routing and Submission
process.
If you don’t have a grant specialist in your unit, you will need to contact IU’s Office of Research Administration at least two weeks before your grant’s deadline for
help with your project budget
.
All proposals for grants, contracts, agreements and gifts must be submitted through the Office of Research Administration
one week prior to the submission deadline.
Read the IU policy on Sponsored Research Programs: Internal Submission Deadlines
.
We are here to support you
The IU research offices work to foster excellence in research. We are here to offer the support you need to find and successfully compete for funding.
Sign up for training
or
attend an informational event
to learn more about developing your research and creative activities at IU.
Take advantage of the services available to you as you begin the
proposal development and preparation process
.
RDS Request Form
Funding Search Tools
Internal Funding Opportunities
Pivot
Corporate & Foundation Funding Opportunities
Limited Submissions
Proposal Preparation Tools
Workshops & Events
Proposal Routing & Submission
About RDS Teams
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI)