[Source URL]: https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/routing-submission/index.html

Home
Funding & Proposal Support
Proposal Routing & Submission
Proposal Routing & Submission
Routing external funding documents
Indiana University requires that all sponsored project proposals be reviewed prior to submission to the sponsor. At IU, approval is obtained using a Kuali Coeus Proposal Development document. Kuali Coeus (KC) is a comprehensive electronic award management system in use at many universities.
If you have an internal funding submission,
please visit Infoready
.
What must be routed?
New proposals (including projects transferring to IU) and resubmissions
Competing renewal/continuation proposals
Supplemental funds request (including task orders, or increases in proposed funding prior to the award being received)
Cost Share Only proposals for Federal/Federal Pass Through projects
Budget revisions involving an increase in cost share (only if submitting to the sponsor)
Change of Project Director or Co-Project Director
Transfers from IU/Relinquish Statements (including proposals not yet funded)
Read the IU policy on Routing of Sponsored Programs Documents
Learn to prepare a Kuali Coeus (KC) Proposal Development Document
Who can help?
If your unit has a grant administrator, you will work with them for assistance with budget, budget justification, and other administrative components of your proposal including the KC Proposal Development Document. If you are unsure who your contact is, please email
ora@iu.edu
for assistance.
If you do not have a contact within your unit to assist with pre-award services including initiating the KC Proposal Development Document, Proposal Development Services (PDS) can assist you with these services. Please request assistance by submitting a
PDS Request Form
.
Once the
PDS Request Form
is received a Pre-Award Specialist will be assigned to assist you with developing your proposal and the KC Proposal Development Document.
After the KC Proposal Development Document is received by the Office for Research Administration (ORA), a Grants Services Administrator will be assigned as your point of contact for submission.
If you are applying to a corporation or foundation for funding,
IU's Corporate and Foundation Relations team
can review your proposal before it is routed to provide feedback or additional information specific to the organization from which you're seeking funding. This can help make your final proposal more competitive and avoid unexpected delays or barriers that may arise with a particular funding organization.
How long does routing take?
The KC Proposal Development document must be routed for internal approvals and received at ORA by 9 a.m. four (4) business days before the funding sponsor’s deadline.
Build your proposal timeline to allow adequate time for review and approval.
Allow additional time for complex proposals such as collaborations, cost-share, or subawards.
Read the IU policy on Sponsored Research Programs: Internal Submission Deadlines
How is my proposal submitted after routing?
Your submitted KC document will route to co-PIs, your unit’s chair or director, the dean and other appropriate administrative officials for approval.
Projects that include personnel from more than one unit or campus require approvals of all associated parties.
After the KC Proposal Development document has been routed and approved, the Office for Research Administration completes the final review, signs, and submits your proposal.
Find out more about electronic submissions
Questions?
All Campuses:
Email:
ora@iu.edu
RDS Request Form
Funding Search Tools
Proposal Preparation Tools
Workshops & Events
Proposal Routing & Submission
About RDS Teams
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI)