[Source URL]: https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/about/index.html

Home
Funding & Proposal Support
About RDS Teams
About RDS Teams
About the Research Development Services Team
At any given time, the RDS team is facilitating 150-200+ projects in all phases of the proposal process, targeting the full array of funding sources—federal, state, corporate, and foundation.
IU faculty on all campuses are invited to fill out the
RDS request form
to leverage curated resources and the RDS team's extensive and broad expertise.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
1. Who can use Proposal Development Services (PDS) and what projects are prioritized?
Faculty on all campuses are encouraged to contact PDS. Projects or activities referenced in the
IU 2030 Strategic Plan
will receive priority.
2.
What’s the difference between the Office for Research Administration (ORA) and PDS?
In a nutshell, ORA helps you make sure a proposal is accepted by the agency for review (compliance), and PDS helps you navigate the proposal preparation process by providing budget and grantsmanship support to ensure that your proposal is reviewed as favorably as possible. PDS is an optional, value-added service.
3. Does ORA still provide proposal preparation and routing support?
No, these services are now provided by PDS. All proposals for external funding still must route to ORA for final review and approval prior to submission. PDS can help guide you through this process.
4. Do you work only on proposals submitted to federal funding agencies?
While many PDS-supported proposals are submitted to federal agencies (e.g., NSF, DOE, NIH, NEH, NEA), PDS specialists support faculty applying for funding from a myriad of sponsors including state programs, foundations, and corporations. PDS works collaboratively with the experts in
IU's Corporate Relations and Foundation Relations
, who provide additional support to faculty seeking private, nongovernmental funding.
5. I’m working on a resubmission. Are PDS services available to me?
Absolutely. PDS specialists can discuss how to address reviewers’ comments and incorporate suggestions into your revised proposal.
6. Will PDS assist me with my proposal for an internal funding program at IU?
No. Services are available only for externally funded opportunities.
7. How much do PDS services cost?
Services are available at no cost to IU faculty members.
Client Testimonials
"This is the first time I've worked with PDS on a grant application. I found it is really helpful to have a clear timeline and to have a sense on how the application looks from a person who is not in the specific research area. My specialist's comments led to some crucial modifications to the proposal. I felt very fortunate to have access to the services provided by PDS. I cannot overstate my appreciation for their time and effort." -
Associate Professor
"PDS support was really important to me. As a first-time applicant to the NSF CAREER program, I greatly benefitted from PDS support, including workshops, resources, and information, as well as one-on-one consultation." -
Assistant Professor
"In addition to a better final product, my consultant's involvement in the proposal development process reduced the overall stress involved in putting together a quality proposal within a short amount of time during a busy time of the semester. I am grateful that this service is available, and I will definitely recommend it to others and use it again in the future." -
Associate Professor
Jen Lawrence
Assistant Vice President for Research Development Services
Phone: (317) 278-5648
Email:
jennlawr@iu.edu
Proposal Development Services
With a wide range of essential grant preparation knowledge, skills and experience across many disciplines, the Proposal Development Services (PDS) team understands research methodologies and design. Twelve staff on the team have PhDs and/or have served as faculty researchers. Nine
staff focus on budgets and other pre-award functions and routing.
Learn more about the PDS team
Pre-Award Services
Mary Beth Novy
Director, Pre-award Services
Email:
mabeschm@iu.edu
Henry Barnes
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
hnbarnes@iu.edu
Marlys Barr
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
marjbarr@iu.edu
Melanie Keller
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
melanie@iu.edu
Amber Knox
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
knoxa@iu.edu
Cheridan Ross
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
cherross@iu.edu
Kat Russo
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
katrusso@iu.edu
Destini Simpson
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
destsimp@iu.edu
Julie Wasserman
Pre-Award Services Specialist
Email:
jkwasser@iu.edu
Team-Based Research Development
Joshua Moore
Executive Director of Team-Based Research and Development
Phone: (317) 274-3548
Email:
moorejom@iu.edu
Allyson Boyington
Associate Director of Team-Based Research and Development
Email:
aboying@iu.edu
Corporate and Foundation Relations and Proposal Support
Cory Rutz
Senior Director of Foundation Relations
Phone: (812) 855-4090
Email:
cjrutz@iu.edu
Beth Grant
Associate Director of Corporate & Foundation Relations
Phone: (812) 856-2026
grantbe@iu.edu
Amjad Alrehaili
Assistant Director of Foundation Relations
Phone: (317) 278-2270
Email:
amalreha@iu.edu
Erica Burns
Assistant Director of Corporate & Foundation Relations
Phone: (317) 278-5040
Email:
erberns@iu.edu
Shaylee Correll
Stewardship & Operations Manager
Phone: (317) 278-5058
Email:
srcorrel@iu.edu
Clarissa Tester
Associate Director of Corporate Relations
Phone: (317) 278-5024
Email:
clrthomp@iu.edu
Angel Nathan
Associate Director of Foundation Relations
Email:
nathana@iu.edu
Learn more about the CFR team
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute
The Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI) provides access to resources and expertise
, including scientific review,
that will accelerate the translation of health sciences research and health care delivery into competitive external grant submissions.
There are 6 teams based on different content expertise:
Community, Healthcare Delivery, & Implementation Science
Concepts to Clinic
Human Health & Biomedical Technology
Networks, Complex Systems & Health
Pediatric Sciences
Structural & Social Determinants of Health
Learn more about CTSI
Institute for Advanced Study
The Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) supports the research and creative activity of faculty, and brings to campus distinguished scholars, scientists, public figures, and artists to deliver lectures, meet with students, and collaborate with faculty.
Learn more about IAS
RDS Request Form
Funding Search Tools
Proposal Preparation Tools
Workshops & Events
Proposal Routing & Submission
About RDS Teams
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI)