[Source URL]: https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/funding/limited-submissions/index.html

Home
Funding & Proposals
Funding Opportunities
Limited Submissions
Limited Submissions
Understanding limited submissions
Some funding agencies restrict the number of proposals an institution may submit to a particular funding program. These opportunities are referred to as limited submissions. Some programs are limited by institution (i.e., X proposals allowed for the entire university), some by campus, some by school.
If a university submits more than the allowable number of proposals to a limited submission opportunity, all of its proposals will likely be disqualified. That is why it is imperative to follow the internal application/administrative peer review process and secure proper authorization from the university (and, in certain cases, your campus, school, or department as well).
Find limited submission opportunities
Due to the recent move of Limited Submission postings to InfoReady's web-based system, archived competitions are no longer viewable on the current page. Please follow the link below for an archived listing of expired postings.
View archived list
How you can tell if a funding opportunity is a limited submission
Carefully check the funder’s guidelines for any mention of institutional limits. These are usually listed in the Notice of Funding Opportunity/Request for Applications under Eligibility. Please be aware that some limitations extend to subawards. If you cannot find an opportunity listed in IU's limited submission programs or are uncertain about whether or not an opportunity is limited, contact
limsub@iu.edu
.
Before you apply
Before you apply for a limited submission opportunity, be aware of any additional requirements, for instance, a letter of nomination from the Dean, Provost, Chancellor, or President. If your proposal is selected, it will be your responsibility to meet all additional requirements, to work with the IU's Office of Research Administration or Corporate and Foundation Relations staff to prepare the proposal, and to submit the full application to the sponsor.
If you are no longer able to apply for a limited submission opportunity, it is imperative that you notify the appropriate contact person immediately in order to allow another colleague the opportunity to move forward with a proposal. Failure to do so may result in your disqualification from subsequent limited submission opportunities.
Applying for a limited submission opportunity at IU
IU's Limited Submissions Team maintains
a summary of limited submission funding programs
that includes links to full agency guidelines and instructions for submitting internal applications at IU. This list of limited submission funding opportunities is by no means exhaustive. Faculty are encouraged to identify additional opportunities as early as possible.
To apply for a particular opportunity, follow the submission requirements for that opportunity found under the "To apply for IU Internal competition" heading.
If you find an opportunity you are interested in, but the internal deadline has recently passed, please contact
limsub@iu.edu
to inquire if the opportunity is still available.
Most internal applications will require at a minimum:
1-2 page project narrative
Abbreviated CV or biographical sketch of the principal investigator
Please feel free to contact limited submissions at
limsub@iu.edu
if you have any questions.
Review process
When a funding opportunity is limited, IU's research offices use a peer review process to identify the strongest proposals. Internal applications are reviewed based on the following criteria:
Responsiveness to program objectives in agency solicitation
Scientific/scholarly strength of proposal
Relevance to Indiana University's research objectives
Presentation of project (clear action plan, completeness, clarity of proposal summary of project, list of collaborators)
In addition, applicants will be asked to submit brief answers to the following questions, which leadership may consider when reviewing proposals.
How will your project support the
IU 2030 Strategic Plan
?
How does your project align with university research initiatives?
Have you previously submitted this proposal? If so, what was the review rating?
To ensure a fair and transparent review process, the following steps are taken:
IU Research senior leaders who are also tenured faculty and/or IU Research staff with expertise regarding a federal, corporate and/or foundation funding source review and provide feedback.
If IU Research senior leaders determine a proposal requires additional expertise to assess, reviewers are identified and engaged for feedback.
Reapplying for a limited submission opportunity
If you previously received authorization for a limited submission, you must go through the internal review and selection process again. Be sure to address any concerns that were expressed by reviewers in your project narrative. In some cases, there may be unusual conditions that require an executive decision to be made by the Vice President for Research, Vice Chancellor for Research, and/or Vice Provost for Research.
Quick Guide
Finding and Applying for a Limited Submission Opportunity
Contact information for inquiries and applications
If you are interested in a program with an expired internal deadline, send an e-mail to the appropriate contact below to inquire about submitting an internal proposal for consideration. A program showing a status of “Closed” is not accepting any additional internal applications.
Limited Submission
Sarah Mosier
Email:
limsub@iu.edu
Phone: 812-855-7079
Bloomington
Sarah Mosier
Email:
limsub@iu.edu
Phone: 812-855-7079
East
Michelle Malott
Email:
mimalott@iu.edu
Phone: 765-973-
8320
Fort Wayne
IPFW faculty members submit proposals for external funding through Purdue University and should consult
Purdue's website
for information about limited opportunities.
Indianapolis
Alicia Gahimer
Email:
algahime@iu.edu
Phone: 317-278-0249
Kokomo
Amy Newton
Email:
amynewto@iu.edu
Northwest
Sandra McMullen
Email:
sjmcmull@iu.edu
Phone: 219-980-6513
South Bend
Erika Zynda
Email:
ezynda@iu.edu
Phone: 574-520-4181
Southeast
Becky Crump
Email:
beccrump@iu.edu
Phone: 812-941-2265
RDS Request Form
Funding Search Tools
Internal Funding Opportunities
Pivot
Corporate & Foundation Funding Opportunities
Limited Submissions
Proposal Preparation Tools
Workshops & Events
Proposal Routing & Submission
About RDS Teams
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI)