[Source URL]: https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/funding/opportunities/index.html

Home
Funding & Proposals
Funding Opportunities
Internal Funding Opportunities
Internal Funding Opportunities
Guiding Principles for the IU Internal Funding Program
The IU Internal Funding Program offered by the Office for Research Development will:
assist faculty, or groups of faculty, to develop forward thinking, new research and creative activities in their fields of interests that will create new scholarship and have strong potential to be developed into successful externally sponsored awards.
give primary consideration to applications submitted by full time faculty and those faculty who have not previously been funded through the program; and
will typically make funding decisions within 20 business days of the application date.
Open Funding Programs
Campus
All Campuses
Bloomington
University-wide
Category
All Categories
Arts and Humanities
Travel
Equipment
Collaborative
International
Supplemental
Go
16
results found
University-wide funding opportunities
Bridge Grant
The Bridge Grant program provides support for externally funded investigators whose project has not been renewed or is between grant cycles and who requires temporary support to retain key personnel and maintain project momentum until funding can be secured again from external sources. This program requires a 70/30% match.
Deadline: Open deadline through June 1, 2025
Maximum amount: $100,000 including 30% match
Eastman Residency for the Arts and Humanities
Supports IU faculty working on arts and humanities research and creative activity by providing residencies from one to three weeks on the IU-owned Eastman property on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts.
Deadline: February 3, 2025
Residency of one to three weeks, $500 travel stipend.
Enhanced Mentoring Program with Opportunities for Ways to Excel in Research (EMPOWER)
The goal of Enhanced Mentoring Program with Opportunities for Ways to Excel in Research (EMPOWER) is to help junior faculty members improve grantsmanship skills to become productive, externally funded researchers. To this end, EMPOWER provides support to faculty from historically underrepresented groups on all IU campuses to increase success in externally sponsored research and scholarly activity. Applicants must identify a willing mentor with proven success in garnering external funding for research and/or creative activity. Based on the availability of funds, IU expects to make 42 awards annually across IU.
Deadline: August 20, 2024
Funding varies by category
External Resubmission Grant
The External Resubmission Grant program supports new research projects that were previously submitted for, but did not receive, external funding, and whose likelihood of funding on resubmission would increase with the acquisition of additional data or proof of concept.
Deadline: Open deadline through June 1, 2025
Maximum amount: $50,000
IU 2030 Emerging Frontiers Grant
The IU 2030 Emerging Frontiers Grant program is a new initiative designed to support the formation of high-caliber, interdisciplinary research teams within IU. These teams are expected to develop bold and innovative research or creative projects capable of competing for substantial external funding (at least $1 million per project) from federal agencies or other external sources. The long-term goal of the Emerging Frontiers Grant program is to help build the pipeline for large-scale, team-based projects over $5 million per project to align with the IU 2030 Strategic Plan goal of doubling $5 million externally-funded projects by 2030.
Deadline: April 1, 2025
Maximum amount: $50,000
IU Presidential Arts and Humanities Program
Supports path-breaking work in arts and humanities areas. Funding is available through four programs.
Deadline: See specific programs.
Funding varies
Layered-Learning Program for Undergraduate (UG) Researchers
The Layered-Learning Program for UG Researchers program is a new initiative designed to support collaboration between undergraduate students and faculty, research staff, postdocs and/or graduate students.   The Program’s main objectives are three-fold including:
Deadline: Open deadline through March 1, 2025 or until three awards are made
$195,000 maximum, including:
•	Three awards, with a $65,000 maximum award amount per PI applicant.
•	Each award will provide up to $25,000 to be used to support the research and creative work and/or compensate associated research staff, postdocs and/or graduate students acting as mentors, as well as $4,000 fellowships ($2,000 per semester per student) for up to 10 undergraduate participants per cohort.
Public Arts and Humanities Project
Funds new projects that benefit the community and state at large through partnership and collaboration with civic or other community organizations.
Deadline: Closed for FY 2025
Maximum amount: $25,000
Research Conference Grant
The Research Conference Grant program purpose is to convene scholars from other institutions around the country and the world with IU faculty and students to explore novel ideas and initiatives, expand scholarly networks, and build new research and creative activity partnerships. Preference will be given to proposed conferences that are interdisciplinary and/or advance innovative ideas and themes within areas of research or creative activity consistent with the goals and objectives of the IU 2030 Strategic Plan.
Deadline: Open deadline through June 1, 2025
Maximum amount: $22,500 ($15,000 Grant; $7,500 match support)
Research Equipment Fund
The Research Equipment Fund (REF) provides support for purchasing new research or creative activity equipment, for repairing or upgrading existing equipment, and for datasets at IU university-wide that are strategically necessary to support high-quality research, attract and retain research faculty, and generate external funding. The Research Equipment Fund (REF) provides support for purchasing new research or creative activity equipment, for repairing or upgrading existing equipment, and for datasets at IU university-wide that are strategically necessary to support high-quality research, attract and retain research faculty, and generate external funding. All requests to IU Research should be more than $5K (after the required cost-share is secured). There is no maximum request. There is no specified annual limit of funds available for this program. Funds will be allocated as available and consistent with the requirements of this program. This program requires matching funds.
Deadline: Open deadline through June 1, 2025
There is no maximum request.
Research Micro Grant
The Research Micro Grant program provides funding for small research projects, research expenses, book publishing, and other research related items in support of faculty research and creative activities that are sustainable through external funding.
Deadline: Open deadline through June 1, 2025
Maximum amount: $3,000
Seed Grant
The Seed Grant program supports new, innovative research or creative activity projects that are sustainable through external funding. Seed Grant awardees are required to submit proposals for external funding based on their Seed Grant awarded research project within three years of the award letter date.
Deadline: October 1, 2024; April 1, 2025
Maximum amount: $50,000
Bloomington funding opportunities
Competitive funding programs
Faculty Assistance in Data Science
The Program for Faculty Assistance in Data Science (FADS) is designed to provide access to expertise and assistance in advanced data analytics, data visualization, and database development for the purpose of catalyzing faculty research. This program pairs faculty in any discipline with graduate students pursuing a M.S. in Data Science (MSDS) through the Luddy School of Informatics for summer research internships.
Deadline: September 19, 2025
N/A
Open Access Article Publishing Fund
Deadline: The funding cycle for the 2024-2025 academic year is now open.
Please note that some IU Libraries agreements include coverage of publishing fees. These agreements change from time to time. Researchers can visit https://guides.libraries.indiana.edu/OApublishing for more information and contact Willa Tavernier at wtavern@iu.edu. If applicable to your research you should use these benefits instead of the OA Fund.
Maximum amount: $2,000
Nominations required
Distinguished Faculty Research Award and Lecture (DFRL)
The Distinguished Faculty Research Award and Lecture recognizes the research achievements of an IU Bloomington faculty member whose work makes important contributions to society.
Award amount: $5,000
The Luther Dana Waterman Professorship
The Luther Dana Waterman Professorship supports an outstanding early-career professor working in the sciences, broadly defined.
Deadline: August 2025
Award amount: $25,000 per year for five years
Questions?
Contact
ord@iu.edu
.
RDS Request Form
Funding Search Tools
Internal Funding Opportunities
Pivot
Corporate & Foundation Funding Opportunities
Limited Submissions
Proposal Preparation Tools
Workshops & Events
Proposal Routing & Submission
About RDS Teams
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI)