[Source URL]: https://research.iu.edu/funding-proposals/funding/pivot.html

Home
Funding & Proposal Support
Funding Search Tools
Pivot
Pivot
Using Pivot to find external funding
IU invests in Pivot, a comprehensive worldwide funding database, to help you locate funding from external sources to support your work. No need to run the same search over and over – you can set up individualized searches, and receive one weekly email that lists all the new opportunities from those searches.
Already have a Pivot account?
Start your funding searches right away.
Access Pivot
Need help with Pivot?
We're ready to assist, just ask!
Email ord@iu.edu
Pivot FAQs
What is Pivot?
Pivot
is a funding opportunities and scholars database updated daily that allows users to receive results in a variety of ways. You can search for funding by keywords or funding organization's name, track individual opportunities, and receive ongoing alerts.
All IU faculty, staff and students can access Pivot.
How do I register for a Pivot account?
To register for a Pivot account, go to the
Pivot account page
and click on Sign Up. Your Indiana University email address will be your user ID. Click "create my account" to receive a confirmation email. Open your confirmation email, click on the "confirm" link.
What is a Pivot profile, and how do I claim one?
A Pivot faculty profile is pre-populated with content drawn from publicly available information and user-entered information. This information may include name, affiliation, ORCID, CV, summary of publications, degrees, and more.
Pivot contains millions of pre-populated profiles, including ones for IU faculty. These profiles are useful for finding funding, saving searches, sharing opportunities, and finding collaborators. To create, claim, modify, or update your profile,
follow these instructions
.
How do I use Pivot to search for funding?
Pivot's Funding page allows you to search for funding opportunities. You can either do a quick search or an advanced search.
Where can I get help with Pivot?
Pivot workshops and individual training sessions are available to IU faculty and staff. If you are interested in a workshop for your department or a one-on-one session for yourself, email your request to
ord@iu.edu
.
There are helpful Pivot contacts on each campus, too. Contact your Pivot liaison:
IUI: Alicia Gahimer,
algahime@iu.edu
IUB:
IUC: Lori Montalbano,
lmontal@iu.edu
IU East: TJ Rivard,
trivard@iu.edu
IU Kokomo: Lisa Canada,
lcanada@iu.edu
IU Northwest: Sandy McMullen,
sjmcmull@iu.edu
IU South Bend: Erika Zynda,
ezynda@iu.edu
IU Southeast: Diane Wille,
dwille@iu.edu
I read my Pivot Funding Alert email every week. It includes funding notices that match my personal profile and a custom query. For most of the grants I apply for, I first learn about those opportunities through Pivot.
--Fil Menczer, Distinguished Professor of Informatics and Computer Science in the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering at Indiana University Bloomington
RDS Request Form
Funding Search Tools
Internal Funding Opportunities
Pivot
Corporate & Foundation Funding Opportunities
Limited Submissions
Proposal Preparation Tools
Workshops & Events
Proposal Routing & Submission
About RDS Teams
Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute (CTSI)