[Source URL]: https://serveit.luddy.indiana.edu/internships/teams.html

Home
Internships
Teams
Serve IT Teams
Our Teams
WEBSITE PROJECT TEAMS
Our most common request from clients is to design or re-design a website. Students on these teams work directly with clients to develop sitemaps and wireframes, design pages in Wordpress, develop basic familiarity with security, accessibility, and usability skills, mobile responsiveness, SEO, and use project management tools to guide their work.
CYBERSECURITY
Students on this team work directly with our client teams to assess and assist with security on our websites and other projects. They attend client meetings, consult on general WordPress and data security for nonprofits, and support clients teams with research and development on general security recommendations. May include coding for complex client projects. One team per semester.
DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY
Our digital accessibility teams work directly with our website teams to assess accessibility issues on sites and make recommendations, which trains them up to do the same for nonprofit and governmental clients looking for help identifying and understanding accessibility on their own sites, so they can fix them. Students do not need prior knowledge, as the curriculum walks each team through the steps.
BUSINESS ANALYSIS AND DATA VISUALIZATION
Our data visualization teams explore and display data trends, either for internal decision-making purposes or external audiences. Clients have included the City of Bloomington and the State of Indiana's Family and Social Services Administration. Students joining this team must first complete the I400 Tableau course.
TEACH IT
Teach IT is one of our largest teams. If you love working with others and want to share your love for technology and reduce the digital divide, this is your team. We work with three local Boys and Girls Clubs, Edgewood Jr. High, and various other partners in town, developing and delivering fun tech workshops to local youth that align with Indiana K-12 state standards for computer science. We also work with adults such as the Meadowood Retirement Center and Thriving Connections, coaching adults on various random technology issues. Alumni often mention that their experience with Teach IT helped them develop consulting skills.
For me, the most valuable experience with Serve IT was that I was able to learn how to be apart of a team. For the most part, most of my web development experience have been done individually. Because of this, being apart of a team was very unique and different. With that being said, I feel like I came out with a better idea on how to exchange ideas while implementing everybody's ideas equally.
Serve IT Team Lead
Join the internship for credit that makes a difference in the community.
Apply Now
Teams
Graduate Level Internships
Undergraduate Internships