[Source URL]: https://spea.indiana.edu/masters/degrees-certificates/environmental-science/index.html

Home
Masters
Degrees & Certificates
Master of Science in Environmental Science (MSES)
Master of Science in Environmental Science (MSES)
Earn an MSES degree and shape the future of environmental science
With a Master of Science in Environmental Science (MSES) degree from the O’Neill School, you’ll become an environmental professional—mastering the science, along with the analytical and policy skills needed to apply scientific knowledge and lead the way toward solving environmental issues facing our global society. Our MSES program is one of the oldest and largest in the nation.
Completion of this degree also makes you eligible for STEM OPT extension.
Add an MPA to your MSES degree
Get more education in less time with a dual degree—combine your MSES with an MPA and earn two master's degrees in less time than it would take to earn each degree separately and become sought after by environmental agencies also seeking policy expertise.
Learn more about the MPA-MSES
Take the first step
Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required.
First Name
*
Last Name
*
Email
*
Mobile Phone
*
Can we text you?
*
Yes
No
Are you a domestic or international student?
*
Domestic
International
Program Interest
*
Master of Science in Environmental Science (MSES)
Master of Public Affairs-Master of Science in Environmental Science (MPA-MSES)
Master of Science in Environmental Science-Outside Dual Degree
Anticipated Start Term
*
Fall 2025
Spring 2026
Fall 2026
Spring 2027
Fall 2027
Spring 2028
Enter in the Outside Dual Degree
TermCode
custom field 04
customfield
utm_content
utm_campaign
utm_source
utm_medium
100% of O'Neill master's students are considered for funding.
Competitive funding packages are available to assist in making our top-ranked school affordable.
Email us
about funding your degree.
Learn more
100%
of reporting 2022-23 MSES and MPA-MSES masters students go into employment, military, or continuing education upon receiving their degree
Application deadlines
Spring term
International deadline: October 1
Final deadline: November 15
Fall term
Priority deadline: January 15
Final deadline: May 1
International deadline: March 1
Prerequisites for the MSES
Download the details
Our recent grads have started their careers as:
Wetlands Project Manager, Indiana Department of Environmental Management
Park Ranger, National Parks Service
Environmental Quality Analyst, State of Michigan
Ecologist Coordinator, Arkansas Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Division
Policy Regulatory Planner, Midcontinent Independent System Operator
Environmental Protection Specialist, U.S Environmental Protection Agency
Landscape Conservation Design Specialist, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Wetlands Specialist, Burns & McDonnell
Let’s talk about your options and career goals!
Schedule a meeting with Patrick Lewis
Connect with a current student
Speak with a student ambassador about their O'Neill experience
Apply for admission
Find funding opportunities
Benefit from our interdisciplinary approach
You’ll study at a top-tier research institution with access to an expansive and varied curriculum—earning an integrated, holistic degree from a school with an established, national reputation.
Graduate prepared to lead in the public, nonprofit, or corporate world, pairing big-picture ideas with hands-on experience.
The MSES Program
2
years to complete
48
credit hours
Core Curriculum
Master the fundamentals with courses in Applied Math for Environmental Science, Statistics for Environmental Science, Applied Ecology, Environmental Engineering, Environmental Chemistry. You’ll also choose from courses in environmental policy, management, law, and economics.
Concentrations
You’ll choose at least one specialized area of concentration, focusing on your area—or areas—of interest.
Experiential Requirement
You’ll complete an internship, research project, or other professional or volunteer experience.
Capstone Project
You’ll complete a semester-long group project working on a complex problem, often for a real-world client.
See course descriptions in the Graduate Bulletin
Learn from the best
Our faculty members are top research scientists, serious scholars, and dedicated educators, advisors, and mentors. They earn accolades—from National Science Foundation awards to Fulbright fellowships to the
Nobel Prize
. As a student at O’Neill, you’ll benefit from their expertise and work alongside them in a collaborative environment.
Learn more about faculty research
The professors at the O’Neill School are some of the best researchers in their field and as a student you have them at your disposal. They’ll talk to you about their labs and other research opportunities available to you.
—Nicholas Scubelek, Intern with Indiana Geological and Water Survey
Academic & Leadership Programs
Why O’Neill?
Degrees & Certificates
Master of Public Affairs (MPA)
Master of Public Policy (MPP)
Master of Science in Environmental Science (MSES)
Core Curriculum
Concentrations
Capstone
Experiential Requirement
Master of Environmental Sustainability (MES)
Master of Science in Healthcare Management (MSHM)
Master of International Affairs (MIA)
Master of Arts in Arts Administration (MAAA)
Dual Degree Programs
Certificates
How to Apply
Cost & Financial Aid
Contact & Visit