[Source URL]: https://spea.indiana.edu/masters/degrees-certificates/arts-administration/index.html

Home
Masters
Degrees & Certificates
Master of Arts in Arts Administration (MAAA)
Master of Arts in Arts Administration (MAAA)
Focus your passion and advance your career in the arts
It takes more than passion to successfully lead an arts organization. Future arts administrators need business acumen, marketing expertise, and management skills to tackle the art world's greatest challenges.
As a MAAA student, you’ll learn from top scholars in arts management and cultural policy. In addition to being committed educators, O'Neill faculty members are highly regarded by their peers in the arts management industry and at academic institutions across the country. Combining faculty and practical expertise with the astonishing variety of cultural offerings on campus and in Bloomington, students can look forward to an intellectually and culturally stimulating experience in the study and practice of arts management, while preparing themselves for leadership in the arts in the decades ahead.
100% of O’Neill master’s students are considered for funding.
Competitive funding packages are available to assist in making our top-ranked school affordable.
Email us
about funding your degree.
Learn more
Instagram
Blog
Facebook
LinkedIn
Take the first step
Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required.
First Name
*
Last Name
*
Email
*
Mobile Phone
*
Can we text you?
*
Yes
No
Are you a domestic or international student?
*
Domestic
International
Program Interest
*
Master of Arts in Arts Administration (MAAA)
Master of Arts in Arts Administration-Master of Public Affairs (MAAA-MPA)
Master of Arts in Arts Administration-Outside Dual Degree
Anticipated Start Term *
Fall 2025
Fall 2026
Fall 2027
Anticipated Start Term *
Spring 2025
Fall 2025
Spring 2026
Fall 2026
Spring 2027
Fall 2027
Enter in the Outside Dual Degree
TermCode
custom field 04
custom field 05
utm_campaign
utm_source
utm_medium
utm_content
Application deadlines
Fall term:
Priority deadline: January 15
Final deadline: May 1
International: March 1
Give to the Arts Administration Program
Choose from the "make a selection" drop down.
Let’s talk about your options and career goals!
Schedule a meeting with Patrick Lewis
Connect with a current student
Speak with a student ambassador about their O'Neill experience
Apply now
Read the Arts Admin blog
100%
of reporting 2022-23 MAAA masters students go into employment, military, or continuing education upon receiving their degree
Why you should consider the MAAA Program
Description of the video:
Anjali Varma, MAAA student:
I want to help build a world where arts is not just appreciated, but is highly regarded as a viable career option.
Tehvon Fowler-Chapman, MAAA’18, Executive Director, Washington Concert Opera:
The MAAA program prepared me to manage by showing me how important it is to consider everyone who's impacted by your decisions.
Eric Ashby, MAAA-MPA student:
Arts administration in a very basic sense is being the bridge between arts and audiences. And you have people helping raise money. You have people in operations and this program helps you understand those unique management considerations that are attached to the arts so that you can effectively be that bridge.
Karen Gahl-Mills, Director, O’Neill Arts Administration Programs:
Here at the O'Neill school, which is a school of public and environmental affairs, you get the benefit of not only studying the best in management for the arts, but you get to do it surrounded by students from around the country and around the world - thinking about the big problems facing our communities.
Eric Ashby:
Arts, artists, the creative economy have unique attributes that can be leveraged as community problem solving vehicles. And so I really think leading for the greater good lies at the intersection of the arts and community.
Chloe Dukes
,
MAAA student:
I chose O'Neill because affordability was very important to me, as well as the large network of alumni. Just to see where they are now, how they were prepared for the work that they're doing. I wanted that for myself.
Michael Cervantes, MAAA’19:
O’Neill absolutely set me up for success. Every single aspect of my time within the program was something that has contributed to my ability to succeed in my current role.
Karen Gahl-Mills:
This is a residential program, but you don't pause your career. You come here and get more professional experience through practicum assignments that you get to direct through a really robust internship program, which we help you fund.
Anjali Varma
: The MAAA program encourages hands-on experience and a hands-on experience in an arts organization helps you seal the information that you're learning theoretically in classes.
Eric Ashby:
No matter what you're interested in, whether it's visual arts, music, dance theater, it's all here. And there's opportunities to engage in that in a really meaningful way.
Chloe Dukes:
I've been able to work with organizations such as Artisan Alley and the Bloomington Creative Glass Center and use the things I'm learning in the classroom to help the community.
Eric Ashby:
Bloomington really does have the cultural resources and assets of a large city, but it's in a smaller community, which means that you actually have the opportunity to go in and be a part of big decisions and do really hands-on work.
Karen Gahl-Mills:
We have researchers who are really on the cutting edge of what research in cultural affairs looks like. We also have extraordinary practitioners as our faculty folks who have done it, who have run organizations and the combination of theory and practice from our faculty benefits our students.
Chloe Dukes:
They care a lot and they want to push their students to be the very best version of themselves and to make sure that they're ready to enter in the workforce.
Eric Ashby:
One of the great things about the arts administration program here is that they make big feel really small. So you have access to the resources of a Big Ten institution, but you also have a cohort. So you get kind of the best of both worlds.
Colin Knapp, MAAA student:
The relationships that I have built here are going to serve as really incredible resources moving forward.
Eric Ashby:
That community is just invaluable. And I think that's something that has to happen organically and it's happening organically at O'Neill.
Chloe Dukes:
You'll learn from your teachers. You'll learn from your colleagues. You'll learn from walking down the street and just seeing things that inspire you every day.
Off-screen speaker:
I've really relished my time here, time that I'm able to spend growing as a leader.
Anjali Varna:
If you're really passionate about the arts and you really want to facilitate the continuation of it, I would highly recommend this program.
The MAAA Program
3-4
semesters to complete
45
Credit hours
280
hour internship
Explore the MAAA curriculum
Hone your management and leadership skills
Learn more about MAAA’s experiential learning component
Gain real-world experience while still in school
Dual degree options
Make the most of your graduate school experience with our outside dual degree programs and pursue two interests by combining your Master of Arts in Arts Administration with a second master’s degree:
Master of Arts in Arts Administration - Master of Public Affairs (MAAA-MPA)
Master of Arts in Musicology - Master of Arts in Arts Administration (MAM-MAAA)
International dual degree:
Master of Arts in Arts Administration - Master of Arts in Cultural Policy and Arts Management (MAAA-MACPAM)
with University College Dublin
Our recent graduates have started their careers as:
Manager of Artistic Planning and Administration, New York Philharmonic
Associate Vice President for Strategic Innovation and Special Initiatives, Manhattan School of Music
Conservator, Lilly Library
Development Associate, Louis Armstrong House Museum & Archives
Head of Individual Giving and Events, Ars Nova
Associate Director, Patron and Young Associate Giving, Metropolitan Opera
Grants and Research Manager, Indiana Arts Commission
Arts Learning Coordinator, South Carolina Arts Commission
Operations Manager, Rewiring America
Government and Public Services Consultant, Deloitte
Tehvon Fowler-Chapman, MAAA'18
On his transition from performance to management.
Description of the video:
Prior to coming to the MAAA program at IU, I was performing and mostly I was teaching percussion. I made the decision to transition from being a performer to becoming an administrator because I love supporting artists and creating opportunities for them. The MAAA program really served as like a foundation for how I approach my work on a day-to-day basis. As the Executive Director of Washington Concert Opera, I am the main fundraiser. I provide program support for our operas. I oversee a lot of our marketing initiatives as well as our operations. I have always wanted to support artists and I did want to become an administrator but I never thought that I would aspire to be an executive director. The program really showed me everything that I was capable of. I think the MAAA program prepared me to manage by showing me how important it is to consider everyone who's impacted by your decisions. What makes O'Neill special is the fact that it is holistic. When it comes to public management, arts administration truly has a home in the O'Neill school. I would describe the O'Neill faculty and staff as incredibly helpful and supportive, and just priceless in terms of the experience that they have as leaders of organizations, former grant makers, executive directors, program directors, all coming back to the university to provide the expertise that they've developed in the field. As an aspiring arts administrator, being in Bloomington gives you a lot of access to learn from a variety of different cultural organizations. Not only does the local government provide a lot of support for the culture of the area, but they work really well with the university to create a thriving arts community. I would recommend this program to anyone who wants to see the arts thrive. If you care and you want to be on the front lines supporting art forms then this is the program for you.
“The MAAA program is the place where you will learn to think critically about the opportunities and challenges facing artists and arts organizations. The pandemic has forced a significant ‘reset’ on the field, which, while difficult, also provides the ability for administrators to experiment, innovate, and drive positive change. By studying with our extraordinary faculty, by learning from and working with arts leaders from around the nation, and by building a network that will support you throughout your career, you will finish this degree prepared to help reshape our cultural landscape for the better.”
—Karen Gahl-Mills, Director, Arts Administration Program
Henry Bowen, MAAA'21
Manager of Artistic Planning and Administration, New York Philharmonic
“The time I spent in work study roles at IU Auditorium and the Lotus Festival greatly improved my knowledge of the inner workings of arts organizations. Courses with the esteemed MAAA faculty provided a foundation of knowledge in nonprofit leadership, finance, and communications that I use in my day-to-day work.”
Megh Cooper, MAAA'23
Head of Individual Giving and Events, Ars Nova
"After six years working in nonprofit theatre, the MAAA program helped me formalize my administrative and leadership training. I built upon everything I knew, found mentorship and fellowship, and grounded myself in thoughtful practices in the public and non-profit sectors. The MAAA program prepared me to step confidently into arts leadership."
Andrew Recinos, MAAA'95
President and CEO, Tessitura Network
“Arts and culture bring curiosity, and creativity and compassion, and all of these traits that our communities need more of than ever. And if you have that fire, if you believe in that, the best way to help bring this to the world is to work in arts administration. And the best way to create the professional skills that you need to succeed is this program.”
Academic & Leadership Programs
Why O’Neill?
Degrees & Certificates
Master of Public Affairs (MPA)
Master of Public Policy (MPP)
Master of Science in Environmental Science (MSES)
Master of Environmental Sustainability (MES)
Master of Science in Healthcare Management (MSHM)
Master of International Affairs (MIA)
Master of Arts in Arts Administration (MAAA)
Curriculum
Experiential Requirements
Faculty Profiles & Publications
For Jacobs Students
For Doctoral Students
Dual Degree Programs
Certificates
How to Apply
Cost & Financial Aid
Contact & Visit