[Source URL]: https://studentcentral.indiana.edu/pay-for-college/apply-financial-aid/index.html

Home
Paying for College
Apply for Financial Aid
Apply for Financial Aid
Get help paying for college
By now, you may have heard of something called
FAFSA
—the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. It’s the key to getting money for your education based on your financial need. By filing your FAFSA, you’ll be applying for most of the financial aid offered, including loans, grants, work-study, and some scholarships.
Use the following step-by-step instructions to learn what you need to do
before you start your FAFSA
,
when you are ready to apply
and
after you have submitted your application
.
At this time, federal student aid and loans—including Pell Grants and federal work-study programs—are
expected to be awarded as they have been in previous years
.
We are closely monitoring the situation and remain fully committed to assisting students in navigating their financial aid options. As a reminder, we encourage all students to complete the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
as soon as possible. Completing the FAFSA not only ensures eligibility for federal aid but also provides access to state aid and scholarships that can further support a student's education.
If you have any questions or need assistance with your FAFSA, please don’t hesitate to
contact Student Central
.
Learn about changes to the FAFSA
This year, the FAFSA application process will look different than it has in the past—Federal Student Aid is updating the application to expand access and streamline the process. Play the video below to learn about the updated FAFSA.
Description of the video:
[video description: The screen is off-white with a gray texture. The IU logo appears on the screen, followed by the word “FAFSA.”]
Voiceover:
You’ve heard about it. You know it’s important. But what exactly is the FAFSA, and what can it do for you? Keep watching, and we’ll tell you everything you need to know.
[video description: Title: “Everything you need to know about the FAFSA.”]
Voiceover:
FAFSA stands for Free Application for Federal Student Aid, and completing it is your first step in getting financial aid for college.
[video description: Graphic of a house. Roof pops open, and numerals and money symbols float in and out of the house.]
Voiceover:
You’ll fill in your household’s financial information, which colleges will then use to determine your eligibility for scholarships, grants, work-study, loans, and other aid.
[video description: Timeline graphic, beginning with December and ending with April 15.]
Voiceover:
The FAFSA opens in December this year. Our priority deadline is April 15, but we recommend completing it as soon as possible during your senior year.
[video description: Graphic of campus building with IU flag on top. Text: “Complete each year.”]
Voiceover:
Once you’re a college student, you’ll need to complete the FAFSA each year to remain eligible for financial aid.
[video description: Graphic of computer screen. User types “FAFSA.GOV.”]
Voiceover:
Ready to get started? Visit fafsa.gov to create your Federal Student Aid ID, which is the username and password you’ll use throughout the entire FAFSA process. Contributors such as parents, stepparents or spouses will also need to create a Federal Student Aid ID. You can complete your FAFSA online at FAFSA.gov.
[video description: graphic of person with two more people appearing in conversation bubbles next to them. Placeholder names and dates of birth appear below each additional person’s graphic.]
Voiceover:
When you're filling out your FAFSA, you'll be asked to invite your contributors. So, have their names, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, and email addresses ready. Each contributor will have to log in and provide their consent and approval.
[video description: Graphic versions of Social Security card, bank statement, and a tax form appear. Then, graphic versions of a receipt, cash, and a pie chart appear.]
Voiceover:
Make sure you and your contributors have important documents by your side as you fill out the FAFSA, such as tax returns, records of child support received, current balances of cash, savings and checking accounts, net worth of investments, businesses, and farms.
[video description: Graphic of analog clock showing passage of one hour.]
Voiceover:
It may take each contributor about one hour to complete their section.
Voiceover:
To ensure that Indiana University Bloomington receives your information, be sure to list our federal school code: 001809.
[video description: Text: “IU Bloomington’s federal school code: 001809.”]
Voiceover:
Once your FAFSA form has been started, you can view the status, including contributor progress, in your studentaid.gov account.
[video description: Graphic of “SUBMIT” button, with pointer hovering over it.]
Voiceover:
Before you hit “Submit,” read over your information carefully to make sure you’ve answered everything correctly.
[video description: Graphic of papers piled appears beside a checklist that reads make sure you review these documents carefully. Graphics are then replaced by a graphic version of a tear off calendar page that then crosses off days one, two, and three with red x marks.]
Voiceover:
One to three days after all contributors have completed their portions and given their consent and approval, you will receive a FAFSA submission summary which will include your Student Aid Index.
[video description: Graphic of “SUBMIT” button, with pointer hovering over it. The pointed clicks the button which turns into clapping hands.]
Voiceover:
Then give yourself a round of applause! You’re one step closer to paying for college. Watch for notifications from IU.
[video description: Graphic of envelope. Text: “Financial award notice.”]
Voiceover:
We send Financial Award Notices starting in February.
[video description: Text: “Questions?”]
Voiceover:
Questions? We’re here for you.
[video description: Text: “studentcentral.indiana.edu”]
Voiceover:
Visit Student Central any time to find information, answers, and tips on financial aid and managing costs.
[video description: Screen goes red. IU logo. Text: “Indiana University Bloomington.”]
Before you apply
Before you begin the application process, learn what you need to do to get ready to apply.
What to expect
Most
types of aid
we award are need-based, and you will be awarded your maximum aid eligibility up front. Here’s how we calculate your need:
Your
cost of attendance (COA)
– Student Aid Index (SAI) = Your need
Regardless of whether you receive need-based aid, non-need-based aid, or both, your award will never be more than your cost of attendance. And keep in mind that there’s no guarantee you’ll receive the whole amount you need to cover all of your expenses.
When you're filling out your FAFSA, you'll be asked to invite your contributors. So, have their names, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, and email addresses ready. Each contributor will have to log in and provide their consent and approval. Learn more about
who is considered a contributor
when filling out your FAFSA.
Apply by the priority deadline
Be sure to apply as soon as possible after the application becomes available. The application will be available in October and we recommend filing before April 15.
What’s the Student Aid Index (and why does it matter)?
The Student Aid Index (SAI) replaces the Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) as the criteria used to determine whether you're eligible for certain types of aid, and if so, how much you can be awarded. Your SAI is calculated based on the financial information you provide on your FAFSA. (Your SAI doesn’t tell you what you’ll pay for your education, though. In many cases, families contribute more than the SAI to cover all expenses.)
For priority awarding, be sure to fill out a new FAFSA
before April 15
.
When you apply
Make sure you have the important pieces of information listed below. Having everything together before you start will make filling out the FAFSA easier.
Your FSA ID
To file your FAFSA, you and all household contributors need to
create a Federal Student Aid (FSA) ID
. This is a username and password combination that you’ll use to securely access your financial aid information and electronically sign your FAFSA.
Learn more about your FSA ID
IU Bloomington’s federal school code
IU Bloomington’s federal school code is 001809.
What you will need
Contributors
When you’re filling out your FAFSA, you’ll be asked to invite your contributors—parents, step-parents, or spouses. So, have their names, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, and email addresses ready.
Each contributor will have to create an
FSA ID to
log in. They will also need to provide their consent and approval for the direct data exchange of Federal Tax Information from the IRS to the FAFSA. If consent and approval is declined, the student will be ineligible for federal student aid.
Financial information
Every contributor will need the following information while completing the FAFSA:
Tax return
Records of child support received
Current balance of cash, checking, and savings accounts
Records of net worth of investments, businesses, and investment farms
Social security number
You’ll need your Social Security number. You’ll also need your contributors’ Social Security numbers if you’re a dependent.
Alien registration number
Not a U.S. citizen? You’ll need your
alien registration number
, also known as your alien number, A-Number, or USCIS#.
Once you’ve gathered everything you need, you’re ready to file your
FAFSA
. The online application will guide you through the process—just follow the directions on the screen. You’re all set!
A note about dependency
Your dependency status is determined by a group of dependency questions on the FAFSA. If you can’t answer “yes” to any of the questions, you’ll be considered dependent and advised to supply parental information on your FAFSA.
Learn more about dependency status
Which parent(s) to include
Not sure which parent’s information to include on your FAFSA? Get the details about reporting parent information.
After you apply
Read below for instructions and to learn more about what you can do after you apply.
Check for messages or tasks
Check your One.IU
To Do List
and check your mail and email regularly for communication from us. Read and respond to all letters, emails, and other communications from us as soon as possible. If you have questions,
contact us
as soon as possible as well—we’re here to help you.
We’ll let you know what happens next
You’ll get a financial aid notice from us as soon as we’ve put together an award package for you. If you receive more funding after your award package has been put together, and that funding causes your aid total to exceed your cost of attendance (COA), your award package may change. Remember, you can never be awarded more than your COA—and your aid can change even if it doesn’t exceed your COA.
If you’re an incoming freshman, we’ll send you a paper Financial Aid Notice in February. It will include an estimate of your financial aid, your estimated cost of attendance, and other information you’ll want to know.
If you’re a current student, we’ll email you in June to let you know that your financial aid summary is available in the
Student Center
in One.IU.
Verify your information
You may be asked to verify the information you provided on your FAFSA before you can be declared eligible to receive financial aid. We’ll contact you by mail if you’re selected for verification. And check your One.IU
To Do List
—we’ll notify you there, too.
Be sure to complete verification as quickly as you can and turn in all required documents at the same time to avoid delays with your financial aid. To make sure your aid is processed in time for the fall semester bill, you should finish all required steps no later than June 15. We’ll process your file within three weeks after we have all your documentation.
Learn more about FAFSA verification
Use our
secure contact form
to send us your completed forms or mail them to:
Office of Student Financial Assistance
ATTN: Verification Department
Indiana University
408 N. Union Street
Bloomington, IN 47405
Need help with signing verification forms? Watch the video below.
Learn how to sign verification forms
About verification
Be sure to complete verification as quickly as you can and turn in all required documents at the same time to avoid delays with your financial aid. To make sure your aid is processed in time for the fall semester bill, you should finish all required steps no later than June 15. We’ll process your file within three weeks after we have all of your documentation.
Keep watching your IU email account and your
To Do List
for updates about the verification process.
Get information about your To Do List
Submitting your verification documentation
Use our
secure contact form
to send us your completed forms or mail them to:
Office of Student Financial Assistance
ATTN: Verification Department
Indiana University
408 N. Union Street
Bloomington, IN 47405
Need help with signing verification forms? Watch the video below.
Learn how to sign verification forms
Make sure your financial aid is applied
Authorize IU to use your aid
Make sure you sign a Title IV authorization so your aid gets applied correctly.
Sign the paperwork
You’ll need to go through entrance counseling and sign a promissory note if you’re borrowing a federal loan.
Your Financial Success
Apply for Financial Aid
Manage Your Financial Aid
Funding Opportunities
Pay Your Bill