[Source URL]: https://universityevents.iu.edu/events/event-guidance-registration.html

Home
Events
Event Registration & Guidance
Event Registration & Guidance
University Event Registration (UERC)
Participation in live events is a central component of an Indiana University experience. Convocations, conferences, lectures, concerts, athletic events, non-credit and community programs, symposia, and performances create opportunities to share important perspectives, commemorate experiences, find commonalities with others, create meaningful networks between members of our community, and strengthen bonds with our university. Learning, connecting, and finding gratification through these experiences contribute greatly to the academic and mental health of our community.
Events with 50 or more participants must be submitted to the University Event Registration Committee (UERC) for registration and official approval. This requirement applies to
all
IU sponsored events,
regardless of location
(both on and off campus), and events sponsored by other entities held on IU property.
If the event location is on Indiana University property, ensure you review the
University Space Use Pre-Approval Standard
.
This form must also be submitted at least 10 calendar days in advance of the proposed installation to request approval for the temporary installation of structures and/or mass physical objects, and to request approval for light projections on, or signs or symbols to be affixed to or inserted into the ground or hung from the exterior of any University structure or property.
Register Now
Event Registration
Events with
50 or more
participants must submit proposals to be reviewed and approved by the University Event Registration Committee (UERC).
Planners should book only tentative reservations of facilities prior to approval by the University Event Registration Committee (UERC).
All entities, including student organizations, must request UERC approval for events with 50 or more participants.
In addition to the UERC submission, student organizations must follow the student event guidelines for their campus, procedures for their campus, and comply with all applicable IU policies. Non-student entities must follow all applicable IU policies.
Early submission of event requests is highly recommended. Requests must be submitted no less than 10 calendar days prior to the event.
Events that are academic credit bearing are not required to submit a request of approval.
Event organizers can
apply for event approval of the UERC
by submitting answers to the basic event information questions included on the form and uploading a specific event emergency preparedness plan. This information will be reviewed by the UERC, comprised of university public safety and event management officials. The event organizer will be notified of the determination within 10 calendar days of submission.
Commencement
Special Events
Virtual Event Planning
Event Registration & Guidance