[Source URL]: https://www.ets.org/gre/revised_general/scores

GRE General Test Scores
Learn more about getting and sending your GRE General Test scores, how to understand them and what scoring services are available to you.
Want to view or download your GRE scores?
Sign In
Getting Your Scores
Scores are available 8-10 days after your test date in your ETS account. Learn more about score reporting.
Learn More
Sending Your Scores
Four free score recipients are included with your test fee. Learn more about your score reporting options, including ordering additional score reports.
Learn More
Understanding Your Scores
Learn how the different sections of the test are scored, and find resources to help you understand what your scores mean.
Learn More
Send only your best scores
Approach test day with more confidence, knowing you can send the scores you feel show your personal best — only with the
ScoreSelect
®
option
. Use it on test day or any time you order score reports.
Who accepts GRE General Test scores?
GRE General Test scores are accepted at thousands of graduate schools, including business and law, as well as departments and divisions within these schools. Here are the lists of schools that accept GRE General Test scores.
Approved GRE Score Recipients
Law Schools that Accept GRE Scores
Business Schools that Accept GRE Scores
Score-related policies
To review the GRE score-related policies for test takers, download and review the
GRE® Information Bulletin
(PDF)(2024-25)
. Policies outlined in the bulletin include:
score reports sent to designated score recipients
test fairness and score use
ETS use of personal information
Scoring services
The GRE Program offers three scoring services:
GRE Diagnostic Service — gain insight into your performance on the test questions in  the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections of your test
Question-and-Answer Review Service (
available for New York test takers only
) — review the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning questions you answered incorrectly on your test
Score review for the Analytical Writing measure — request a score review of your Analytical Writing measure
The GRE Diagnostic Service is free, available through your ETS account. The other two services are available for a fee. To learn more, review the
Bulletin
.