[Source URL]: https://www.indiana.edu/academics/schools.html

Home
Academics
Schools
Schools
We have the school for you
IU Bloomington has 16 degree-granting colleges and schools, plus the Hutton Honors College. Many of them are among the nation’s and world’s best, and we’re constantly reimagining them to address new challenges in the world and to prepare students like you for the careers of the future.
College of Arts and Sciences
Earn a degree that is powerful and timeless. With more than 80 majors, the College educates well-rounded, innovative graduates to better the world, while preparing them for rewarding careers.
Eskenazi School of Art, Architecture, and Design
Build a creative career you’ll love. Part of the College of Arts and Sciences, this school brings together art, merchandising, architecture, and design to shape the future of creativity.
Kelley School of Business
Kelley prepares you to turn life’s critical moments into career-accelerating opportunities. Go from moment to momentum with a degree from a top-10 business school.
School of Education
Help people reach their full potential. Apply the knowledge and skills you develop here to make an impact as an educator and a leader in a variety of careers, in the United States and abroad.
Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies
Prepare to be a global citizen and thrive in any workplace. You’ll learn from faculty whose unparalleled expertise extends to nearly every region of the world.
Hutton Honors College
Reach your full potential. Take seminars with other top students and world-class faculty, live in an honors community, earn scholarships, and get grants for research, international travel, and other activities.
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering
Learn how to solve complex problems and drive innovation at one of the largest and broadest schools for information, computing, engineering, and technology.
Maurer School of Law
The Maurer School of Law is Indiana’s top-ranked public law school and has been an innovative force in legal education since its founding in 1842.
The Media School
Whether you’re interested in journalism, film, media, or game design, The Media School’s hands-on courses and expert faculty will prepare you for tomorrow’s digital media careers.
School of Medicine
Achieve a deeper understanding of human health and disease as an undergraduate, graduate, or medical student through cutting-edge biomedical education and research.
Jacobs School of Music
Become a part of the legacy. Win a Grammy. Sing at the Metropolitan Opera. Play with the Berlin Philharmonic. Conduct at Carnegie Hall. IU Jacobs School of Music graduates do all this and more.
School of Nursing
Prepare to be a professional nurse who can work in a variety of clinical settings and who understands society’s public health needs. You’ll also develop a solid foundation for graduate study.
School of Optometry
Grow into a visionary leader who imagines what optometry can be and shapes what it will become. Every day the School of Optometry’s academic programs, research, and clinics advance the field and change patients’ lives.
O’Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs
Study the management of people, policy, and issues that affect the world. Examine big ideas while gaining concrete skills that prepare you for a career leading for the greater good.
School of Public Health-Bloomington
Explore bachelor’s and graduate degree options that train you for a rewarding career of promoting, protecting, and enhancing the health of individuals, families, communities, and populations, locally and globally.
School of Social Work
Learn how to promote social and economic justice, build stronger communities, and work with individuals as they improve their lives—all in an open, caring, and hands-on educational environment.
Graduate School Bloomington
Choose among more than 190 graduate programs—including certificates, master’s degrees, and Ph.D. programs—that will prepare you for a career inside or outside academia.
The Academic Experience
Degrees & Majors
Schools
Academic Opportunities
Study Abroad
Online Classes & Programs
Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar
Academic Advising & Support
Libraries