[Source URL]: https://www.visit.indiana.edu/

Home
Visit IU
Visit IU
Let us show you IU
It only takes one visit to
IU Bloomington
to realize this is your place. That’s because you’ll find an inspiring setting, high-tech classrooms and labs, gorgeous arts venues, and plenty of grand spaces like the Indiana Memorial Union or Simon Skjodt Assembly Hall where you can join other Hoosiers in spirited activities. And within all of these spaces is a welcoming and supportive community. Visit options include
on-campus experiences
and
virtual programs
, all designed to show you what IU has to offer and what life is like when you’re a Hoosier.
Schedule a visit
Explore visit options
Visit in person
Tour campus and meet some of the Hoosier community with a variety of in-person visit options.
Visit virtually
If you can’t make it to Bloomington right now, get to know IU virtually with these online programs.
A visit designed for sophomores & juniors
Get to know IU and the opportunities waiting for you here!
Experience IU Day
, on April 12, is designed for high school
sophomores and juniors
to help you explore the IU campus and resources, learn more about the admission process, and get tips to help with your college search.
Learn more and register
Experience IU in person
Explore in-person visit options then make your plans to come see us on campus! You'll learn more about IU and see why it's called one of the most beautiful campuses in the country.
Daily visits
Learn about academic programs, our spirited community, and tour our gorgeous campus.
Transfer Visits
Transfer Tuesday sessions cover what you need to know about transferring to IU.
Early outreach programs
Visit camps and learn about the resources that will help you find your place at IU.
Attend a Red Carpet Day
Admitted students—visit campus in style and learn about opportunities awaiting you at IU.
Driving tour
Take the scene route and experience campus from your vehicle whenever you're here.
Self guided
Explore campus at your own pace, whenever you like, with this self-guided tour.
Unique visit opportunities
Every visit to Indiana University Bloomington is special, but some programs are customized for specific audiences or to meet unique goals. Check out these visit options to see if one is right for you.
Group Visits
Request a tour for your school or organization for groups of 10 or more students.
Register for a Group Visit
Counselor Visits
Counselors can visit too! Schedule a visit to get all the information you need to help your students apply to IU.
Register for a Counselor Visit
Precollege Programs
Explore your interests and get a firsthand look at college while you're still in middle or high school.
Explore precollege programs
Explore IU with a virtual visit
You can still explore everything IU has to offer even if you can’t make it to campus. Learn more about academics, student life, and all the reasons why you belong at IU with these virtual options.
Virtual IU Information Session
This virtual program for any prospective student will help you discover academic and involvement opportunities, the support network at IU, and the application process.
Virtual Academic Information Sessions
High school students or incoming freshmen: hear from our many academic schools about your program of interest.
Virtual Transfer Talks
The virtual Transfer Talks cover academics, social life, and cultural opportunities, with helpful tips for transfer students.
Virtual Tour
Experience IU through your screen with 360 degree views of campus.
Additional events for admitted students
These outreach events are designed for first-generation and low-income admitted students and their families. Attendance at these events is by invitation only.
Choose IU
Spring 2025, On campus
Admitted Students
Celebrate your admission and discover the opportunities waiting for you at IU. You’ll learn more about financial support and resources, explore IU's career services, enjoy a panel discussion with IU’s cultural center leaders, learn about your next steps to enrolling as a student, and more. Admitted students will be emailed an invitation to attend.
Family Receptions
Spring 2025
Admitted students
Held in locations around Indiana, these events are for admitted students and their families. You'll have an informal meal with IU alumni, students, faculty, and staff—a great chance to ask questions and get advice on preparing for and succeeding at IU.
Level Up
Summer 2025
Parents of admitted students
This series of monthly virtual workshops for parents, families, and supporters of admitted students provides information to help you support your student during their transition to college—and throughout their college journey. Hear from campus experts and have candid conversations on important topics.
Maps, directions, & parking
Find your way here and your way around campus once you arrive with this helpful travel information.
Get maps, directions, & parking info
Interactive Campus Map
Virtual Tour
Maps, Directions & Parking