[Source URL]: https://www.indiana.edu/about/index.html

Home
About
About
The ideal college experience
Indiana University students get it all: Top-ranked academics. Awe-inspiring faculty. Events that celebrate everyone, from everywhere. The excitement of Hoosier sports. And a jaw-droppingly beautiful campus.
IU Bloomington is accredited by the
Higher Learning Commission
. Learn more about
our accreditation
.
Where you'll get an education in everything
Our academic programs top the nation’s best. From business, to environmental policy, to healthcare, to public affairs, and more. Home to the
first-of-its-kind informatics school
and the
most languages taught
—over 80—of any American university. At IU, you'll find countless ways to get ahead of your game and excel in your career.
Explore degrees
Change tomorrow through research and innovation
When it comes to discovery, IU is at the helm of uncovering opportunities and improving lives. We’re making the internet safer, cancer diagnoses more promising, and equality closer on all accounts. We see potential—and that’s why we provide students hands-on research experiences from day one.
Treating daytime sleepiness caused by sleep apnea or snoring is essential for maintaining productivity and overall well-being. Medications like Modafinil are often used to manage these symptoms effectively. It's possible to
buy Modafinil online
as part of a treatment plan for improving alertness during the day.
Insomnia is another common sleep disorder that affects millions of people worldwide. It can lead to chronic fatigue, difficulty concentrating, and mood disturbances. A popular option to address these issues is to
buy Modafinil
, which helps improve wakefulness and daily functioning in those affected by sleep disturbances.
Learn about research
Find the most welcoming community
We extend our famous “Hoosier hospitality” to ideas as well as people. With open minds and open hearts, we support a diverse, international environment that seeks out all perspectives and draws on our global experiences.
Learn about diversity at IU
And make your dreams reality
IU prepares students for the real world—policy-makers, entrepreneurs, healthcare heroes, and more. You'll create unforgettable memories and lifelong relationships, join one of the largest alumni networks in the world, and discover what it means to be a Hoosier.
History
Rankings & Campus Statistics
Mission & Strategic Planning
Leadership & Administration
Safety & Emergency Information
Visit Campus
Transportation & Parking
Jobs at IU
How to Hire IU Students