[Source URL]: https://www.mba.com/exams/gmat

About
Register
Prep for the Exam
Plan for Exam Day
Scores
FAQs
mba.com
Exams
GMAT™ Exam
The GMAT™ Exam
The #1 Exam for Business School!
Secure your spot in business school with the only business-focused exam that’s accepted by more than 7,700 programs at over 2,400 business schools worldwide.
Register Now
Stand Out From the Crowd
The GMAT exam helps business school candidates stand out during the admissions process.
Schools know that candidates who take the GMAT are serious about  earning a graduate business degree. They also know it's a proven predictor of a student's ability to succeed in the classroom. A competitive score can even provide more scholarship opportunities.
In fact, across all GMAT and GRE test takers,
more than 70% rely on the GMAT to get into business school.
Learn More
Gain a Competitive Advantage
Employers say the
top three most important skills
for current business school graduates are problem-solving, communication, and strategic thinking.
Fortunately, the
GMAT exam measures those skills and more!
Plus, taking the GMAT demonstrates your commitment, motivation, and ability to succeed in business school and your career.
Show you are serious about business school with the GMAT
and put your skills
and
yourself in the spotlight.
Register Now
Listen and Subscribe!
Have you listened to our official podcast?
Inside the GMAT
will give you insights on everything you need to know for your b-school journey every week. Episodes feature experts that will share tips on taking the GMAT exam, prepping for a top score, and how to optimize your application for graduate business school.
If you want the inside scoop on the GMAT, graduate business school assessments, industry insights, and graduate business school success strategies - this podcast is for you.
Tune in Today!
What are schools saying?
The GMAT is designed specifically for today’s graduate business programs.
The redesign makes the exam more focused, more accessible and less daunting. But more focused doesn’t mean easier or less valuable. It just means smarter.
Rodrigo Malta
Managing Director at McCombs School of Business, University of Texas
In terms of the relevance and usefulness of the test, this is definitely a positive step that will be beneficial both to business schools and to candidates.
Bruce DelMonico
Assistant Dean for Admissions at Yale School of Management
Changes to the exam address the growing importance of certain competencies and the future of work – for example with the addition of Data Insights.
Arnold Longboy
Executive Director, Recruitment & Admissions at London Business School
Focus on Your Options
GMAT vs. GRE
Only GMAT is designed for business school.
Compare Exams
GMAT or Executive Assessment
Which exam matches your experience?
Compare Exams
GMAT Test Delivery Options
Take the exam at a test center or online.
Compare Options
Close