[Source URL]: http://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom/librarybill

Breadcrumb
ALA
Advocacy & Issues
Intellectual Freedom
Library Bill of Rights
Advocacy Quick Links
Quick Links
Contact Congress
Advocacy Secondary Nav
Advocacy & Public Policy
Getting Started
Build Relationships
Use Traditional Media
Using Social Media
State & Local Resources
Advocacy Assistance
Advocacy Tools
Advocacy Action Plan Workbook
State Legislative Toolkit
Ballot Measures
ALA Initiatives
ALA Ecosystem Initiative
Reader. Voter. Ready.
Libraries Build Business
Policy Corps Unite Against Book Bans Cadre
Training & Events
Federal Resources
ALA Policy Corps
Broadband
Digital Equity Resources for Libraries
Learn Without Limits
Copyright
eBooks
E-rate
Government Information
2020 Census
Federal Depository Library Program
Disaster Preparedness
Open Government
Library Funding
American Rescue Plan - Library Relief
American Rescue Plan - State Guide
Fund Libraries Campaign
Fund Libraries Media Toolkit
Network Neutrality
Privacy
Public Service Loan Forgiveness
School Libraries
Workforce Innovation
Talking Points & Tools
Awareness to Funding
Library Value Calculator
State of America's Libraries Report
Events
Advocacy Training
Public Awareness Campaigns
Daisy Ridley PSA
Harold and the Purple Crayon
IF Imagination Station for Kids
Paddington in Peru Activity Pages
Spellbound Activity Sheets
Banned & Challenged Books
Top 10 Archive
Top 10 Most Challenged Books of 2023
Censorship by the Numbers
Book Ban Data
Banned Books Research Inquiries
Banned Books Q&A
Banned Books Week
Banned Books Week Events
Display Ideas
Get Involved
Stand for the Banned Read-out
Free Downloads
Books for All Initiative
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Access to Library Resources and Services
Accessibility
Technology Access and Assistive Technology
Universal Design
ALA and Affiliate Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Statements
Continuing Education
EDI & Social Justice Training
Facilitators
ODLOS Webinar Submissions
ODLOS Webinar Archives
Trainings and Strategic Planning
Cultural Programming to Promote Diversity
Diversity Research & Statistics
Diversity in the Workplace
EDI in Our Libraries
Hateful Conduct in Libraries: Supporting Library Workers and Patrons
Libraries Respond
Libraries Respond Archive
Libraries Respond: Black Lives Matter
Libraries Respond: Combating Xenophobia and Fake News in light of COVID-19
Libraries Respond: Cyber-bullying and Doxxing
Libraries Respond: Drag Queen Story Hour
Libraries Respond: Immigrants, Refugees, and Asylum Seekers
Libraries Respond: National Day of Healing
Libraries Respond: Protecting and Supporting Transgender Staff and Patrons
Library Services for Patrons with Alzheimer's/Dementia
Library Services to the Incarcerated and Detained
Outreach Toolkits
Spectrum Scholarship Program
Workforce Development
Intellectual Freedom
ALA Statement Regarding Censorship
ALA Statement on Censorship of Information Addressing Racial Injustice, Black American History, and Diversity Education
Fight Censorship
Poll: Voters Oppose Book Bans in Libraries
Library Bill of Rights
Interpretations of the Library Bill of Rights
First Amendment and Censorship
Intellectual Freedom and Censorship Q & A
The Freedom to Read Statement
Not Censorship But Selection
Notable First Amendment Court Cases
Access to Library Resources and Services
Filters & Filtering
Academic Freedom
Meeting Rooms, Exhibit Spaces, and Programs
3-D Printing in Libraries: Policies and Best Practices
Schools and Minors’ Rights
Hate Speech and Hate Crime
Hateful Conduct in Libraries: Supporting Library Workers and Patrons
Shop
Literacy
American Dream Literacy Initiative
About
Grantee Libraries
Programming
Impact
Resources
Inclusive Booklists
Literacy Across the Lifespan
Privacy
Core Values
Privacy and Confidentiality Q&A
Privacy Field Guides
Guidelines & Checklists
Privacy Audits
Students & Minors
Laws & Law Enforcement Inquiries
Training & Programming
Become a Privacy Advocate
Menu
Toggle navigation
The American Library Association affirms that all libraries are forums for information and ideas, and that the following basic policies should guide their services.
I. Books and other library resources should be provided for the interest, information, and enlightenment of all people of the community the library serves. Materials should not be excluded because of the origin, background, or views of those contributing to their creation.
II. Libraries should provide materials and information presenting all points of view on current and historical issues. Materials should not be proscribed or removed because of partisan or doctrinal disapproval.
III. Libraries should challenge censorship in the fulfillment of their responsibility to provide information and enlightenment.
IV. Libraries should cooperate with all persons and groups concerned with resisting abridgment of free expression and free access to ideas.
V. A person’s right to use a library should not be denied or abridged because of origin, age, background, or views.
VI. Libraries which make exhibit spaces and meeting rooms available to the public they serve should make such facilities available on an equitable basis, regardless of the beliefs or affiliations of individuals or groups requesting their use.
VII. All people, regardless of origin, age, background, or views, possess a right to privacy and confidentiality in their library use. Libraries should advocate for, educate about, and protect people’s privacy, safeguarding all library use data, including personally identifiable information.
Adopted June 19, 1939, by the ALA Council; amended October 14, 1944; June 18, 1948; February 2, 1961; June 27, 1967; January 23, 1980; January 29, 2019.
Inclusion of “age” reaffirmed January 23, 1996.
Although the Articles of the
Library Bill of Rights
are unambiguous statements of basic principles that should govern the service of all libraries, questions do arise concerning application of these principles to specific library practices. See the documents designated by the Intellectual Freedom Committee as
Interpretations of the Library Bill of Rights
.
Email
Print
Cite
Share This Page