[Source URL]: http://www.philosophy.indiana.edu/graduate/

Philosophy Ph.D.
Philosophy Ph.D. Minors
Philosophy M.A.
Research Strengths + Graduate Courses
Funding Opportunities
Dissertations
&
Theses
Job Placement
Student Experience
How to Apply
Home
Graduate
Graduate
Graduate program
The Ph.D. program in philosophy at Indiana University Bloomington provides graduate students with a rich variety of contexts in which to explore their philosophical interests and to develop the skills and expertise they need to pursue a career of research and teaching.
Our graduate students participate in seminars, colloquia, workshops, conferences, informal talks on works-in-progress, and reading groups. They study and discuss philosophy with each other, with faculty, and with a broad array of first-rate scholars from other universities.
Our program is distinctive in three main ways:
We are committed to integrating serious work in the history of philosophy with work on issues in contemporary philosophy.
Our faculty has a correspondingly distinctive array of research strengths in the history of philosophy, metaphysics and epistemology (including logic), and value theory.
View our research strengths and graduate courses.
In addition to taking courses in Philosophy, each of our graduate students takes four graduate courses in another department, program, or school at Indiana University. In recent years our students have chosen to take courses in, for example, Cognitive Science, Gender Studies, Germanic Studies, History and Philosophy of Science and Medicine, Mathematics, Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures, Psychological and Brain Sciences, and the Maurer School of Law. Some of our students have also earned joint Ph.D.s in Philosophy and another department or program.
All of our graduate students are admitted with a commitment of five years of full funding either in the form of teaching assistantships or a combination of fellowships and teaching assistantships. Our department also provides four dissertation fellowships each year and the College and university offer competitive fellowships that our students often win. Students can complete the Ph.D. in five years. The current average time to degree is around seven years. In recent memory, all students up through their seventh year have received full funding and we expect this to continue.
Our placement record compares favorably with the placement records of most of our peer philosophy programs.
View placement data on The APDA Blog
View placement data at Daily Nous
Interested in applying to IU Philosophy?
Learn how to apply