[Source URL]: https://www.h4d.us/

Scroll
HACKING for DEFENSE
®
The Nation’s Brightest Minds Tackling Your Toughest Problems
Hacking for Defense is a university course sponsored by the Department of Defense that teaches students to work with the Defense and Intelligence Communities to rapidly address the nation’s emerging threats and security challenges.
It is a program powered by BMNT, Inc. and the Common Mission Project.
Real results. Real impact.
For universities, it keeps their programs attached to real-world problems and provides students with an experiential opportunity to become more effective in their chosen field, with a body of work to back it up.
For the DoD and IC, it allows problem sponsors to increase the speed at which their organization solves specific, mission-critical problems.
850
Problems Addressed
3,750+
Participating Students
66
Participating Universities
62
Startups Formed
See what people are saying about the Hacking for Defense program at Stanford University:
Hacking for Defense: Stanford Management Science and Engineering 297
video courtesy of the
Stanford Tech Ventures Program
.
“
Today if college students want to give back to their country they think of Teach for America, the Peace Corps, or Americorps. Few consider opportunities to make the world safer with the Department of Defense, Intelligence Community, and other government agencies.
The Hacking for Defense class will promote engagement between students and the military ​and provide a hands-on opportunity to solve real national security problems.
”
— Steve Blank, Lean Launchpad Founder
The H4D Ecosystem
DoD Sponsors
Universities
Corporate Mentors
Participating Universities
Student Success Stories
Learn more about the discoveries, innovations and companies that emerge from each semester of Hacking for Defense on our Student Success Stories page.
Read the Stories
A student team presents during a Hacking for Defense class.
Ready to get involved?
Contact us to learn how you can sponsor a problem, bring H4D to your university, or become a corporate sponsor.
Contact Us Today
Home - Banner
Home About
Home Video
Home Testimonial
Home - Audiences Title
Home Audiences Gallery
Home - Universities
Home - Success Stories
Home CTA