[Source URL]: https://yourbigyear.com/ibm-zsystems-ambassador-program

Represent IBM Z
On Your Campus!
The
IBM Z Mainframe Technology
powers the world's biggest businesses.
It is
EVERYWHERE
around you.
IBM Z powers ATM cards, credit cards, airline reservations, hotel reservations, retail shopping & so much more!  Now, it's your chance to learn all things IBM Z and become a student in this highly selective leadership program run in partnership between IBM Z and Your Big Year.
Ideal for students pursuing computer science or allied technical domains, this program empowers you to champion IBM Z's cutting-edge mainframe solutions on your campus. Beyond gaining technical prowess, you will promote unique opportunities, spearhead events or workshops, and even initiate an IBM Z club. The program doesn't just hone your technical acumen but enriches your overall persona, making you a sought-after professional. In today's competitive landscape, companies are on the lookout for candidates who blend technical know-how with stellar interpersonal and organizational capabilities.
Submit Here
Applications are open!
Note: All successful applicants will need to complete the Z Xplore Concepts badge.
Start today
.
In this program you will
What you can access as a Student Ambassador
Training in leadership and technical skills
Mentorship with industry leaders
Free membership to the Interskill technical training platform
Exclusive opportunities for you and your network
Extensive support with events, clubs and social media
Opportunities to hear and meet industry speakers
Global peer group
Opportunities to win prizes
Showcasing of you on Your Big Year and IBM Z channels
What your role is as a Student Ambassador
Earn 2x highly sought-after IBM Z Badges
Organize 2 watch parties or workshops per semester
Set up & lead a club or mainframe community
Sign up 50 students to IBM Z Xplore
Attend or speak at IBM events
Showcase your experience on social media
Meet the current class of 2024-25 IBM Z Student Ambassadors
MEET AMBASSADORS
ELIGIBILITY
To become an IBM Z Student Ambassador, it's essential to complete the Concepts badge on the
IBM Z Xplore platform
within the initial two weeks. This badge offers in-depth training on mainframe technology basics and fundamentals. We recommend kickstarting this training immediately.
The Program is open for applicants who meet the following eligibility criteria:
Enrollment in university, college, or diploma programs focusing on computer science or related tech disciplines.
Studying on-campus
Age: 18 years or above.
Proficiency in English at an intermediate level.
Successful submission of the complete Program
application form.
Registered on the
IBM Z Xplore platform
Residence of the following countries:*   Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Peru, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, USA (including US territories), Turkey and United Kingdom.
APPLICATIONS
Submit Here
Applications for the 2024/25 academic year are open until 21st February 2025.
Note: All successful applicants will need to complete the Z Xplore Concepts badge.
Start today
.
Read the
Terms & Conditions
For further information, please read the
FAQs
.